{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 [\
  \{\
    "title": "Holy Forever",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Db",\
    "suggested_female_key": "E",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Holiness", "Heavenly Worship", "Adoration", "Eternity"],\
    "summary": "A modern worship anthem that joins the church on earth with the worship of heaven, declaring God as holy forever. It is reverent, expansive, and built for congregational awe.",\
    "theology": "This song echoes the heavenly worship scenes where God is continually praised as holy. Its repeated declaration of God\'92s holiness aligns with the biblical picture of unending worship around the throne. The focus stays God-centered, emphasizing His glory and worth rather than human experience, and it invites the congregation to participate in the worship reality Scripture reveals.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 6:3", "Revelation 4:8", "Revelation 5:12-13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the feel steady and unhurried so the room can sing with confidence. Start restrained, then build gradually into the chorus. If you repeat the final section, give a simple verbal cue that you are joining heaven\'92s song, and let the congregation carry the main hook.",\
    "seo_title": "Holy Forever | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Holy Forever\\" by Chris Tomlin. Explore its themes of God\'92s holiness and heavenly worship, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Gratitude",\
    "artist": "Brandon Lake",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Gratitude", "Praise", "Testimony", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A heartfelt response song centered on thanksgiving, expressing that words are not enough and offering praise as an act of worship. It is intimate and highly singable.",\
    "theology": "The song captures a biblical posture of thanksgiving and humble praise. It emphasizes worship as a response to God\'92s goodness and worth, offering the believer\'92s life and voice as an expression of gratitude. When led well, it becomes a corporate testimony that forms grateful hearts rather than performance-driven worship.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 103:1-5", "1 Thessalonians 5:18", "Hebrews 13:15"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Treat this like a guided prayer of thanks. Keep the groove gentle and avoid rushing transitions. If you extend the bridge, briefly prompt the room to name what they are thankful for, then return to the chorus for a unified declaration.",\
    "seo_title": "Gratitude | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Gratitude\\" by Brandon Lake. Learn its themes of thanksgiving and praise, plus practical tips for leading it as a congregational response."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Trust In God",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Trust", "Faithfulness", "Perseverance", "Confidence in God"],\
    "summary": "A steady declaration of confidence in God\'92s reliability. It is simple, memorable, and designed to strengthen faith in seasons of uncertainty.",\
    "theology": "The song centers on God\'92s character as faithful and unchanging, calling believers to trust Him rather than their circumstances. It aligns with biblical trust language and reinforces that God hears, answers, and sustains His people. It is especially effective as a congregational confession of faith.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Proverbs 3:5-6", "Psalm 56:3-4", "Psalm 34:4-5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the rhythm consistent and let the chorus land with clarity. This works well after prayer requests or a sermon moment about anxiety, suffering, or faith. Consider a short spoken bridge that names God\'92s faithfulness before repeating the chorus.",\
    "seo_title": "Trust In God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Trust In God\\" by Elevation Worship. Explore its themes of God\'92s faithfulness and practical tips for leading it as a congregational confession."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Praise",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 127,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Joy", "Adoration", "Call to Worship"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy call to praise that invites the whole church to respond with joy and confidence. It functions well as an opener or a momentum builder.",\
    "theology": "The song aligns with the biblical command to praise God, emphasizing that worship is a fitting response to who God is. It encourages embodied, joyful worship that is rooted in adoration rather than hype. It is best framed as obedience and delight, not mere excitement.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 150:6", "Psalm 34:1", "Psalm 100:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use early in the set as a clear call to worship. Keep the band tight and avoid cluttered vocal runs so the room can lock in. If the chorus repeats, invite the congregation to sing louder on the second pass and let the instruments pull back slightly to feature their voices.",\
    "seo_title": "Praise | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Praise\\" by Elevation Worship. Learn its themes of joyful adoration and get practical tips for leading it with strong congregational engagement."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Thank God",\
    "artist": "Maverick City Music & UPPERROOM",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Db",\
    "suggested_female_key": "E",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 130,\
    "themes": ["Testimony", "Salvation", "Freedom", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A testimony-driven worship song celebrating God\'92s saving power and personal transformation. It is upbeat and works well for congregations that love to sing their story of deliverance.",\
    "theology": "This song centers on salvation as rescue and renewal, celebrating God\'92s initiative to pull the believer from bondage into freedom. It reflects the biblical theme of new identity in Christ and the joy that follows redemption. It is strongest when framed as gospel fruit, not self-improvement.",\
    "scripture_references": ["2 Corinthians 5:17", "Colossians 1:13-14", "Psalm 40:2-3"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is perfect for baptisms, celebration Sundays, or testimony moments. Keep the groove crisp and keep lyrics clearly articulated. If your church is new to it, teach the chorus first and let the congregation carry it before running the full arrangement.",\
    "seo_title": "I Thank God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"I Thank God\\" by Maverick City Music and UPPERROOM. Explore its themes of salvation and testimony, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Who Else",\
    "artist": "Gateway Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Ab",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Holiness", "God's Attributes", "Adoration", "Worthy Lamb"],\
    "summary": "A reverent worship song that magnifies God\'92s unmatched worth and holiness, asking who else could compare. It is contemplative and strong for moments of awe.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes God\'92s uniqueness and worthiness, aligning with the biblical vision of the Lamb who alone is worthy. It forms the church to adore God for who He is, not merely what He gives, and it reinforces a God-centered posture of worship.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 4:11", "Revelation 5:12", "John 1:29"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the arrangement spacious and avoid overbuilding too early. This works well after confession or as a transition into a deeper worship moment. Consider a brief Scripture reading from Revelation 5 to frame the theme of worthiness.",\
    "seo_title": "Who Else | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Who Else\\" by Gateway Worship. Learn its themes of holiness and the worthy Lamb, plus practical tips for leading it with reverence."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Lord Will Provide",\
    "artist": "Passion",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Provision", "Trust", "Faithfulness", "Dependence"],\
    "summary": "A worshipful reminder that God cares and provides, calling the church to trust His faithful hand. It is steady, pastoral, and especially helpful in anxious seasons.",\
    "theology": "The song reinforces God\'92s fatherly care and provision, aligning with biblical teaching that the Father knows what we need and invites us to seek His kingdom first. It forms dependence and confidence, helping the church worship from trust rather than fear.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 6:31-33", "Philippians 4:19", "Psalm 23:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead this as a faith-building confession. Keep it grounded and avoid making it sound transactional. Pair it with a brief pastoral prayer naming real needs in the room, then sing the chorus as a shared statement of trust.",\
    "seo_title": "The Lord Will Provide | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"The Lord Will Provide\\" by Passion. Explore its themes of God\'92s provision and trust, plus practical tips for leading it with pastoral clarity."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Church",\
    "artist": "Bethel Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Gb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 69,\
    "themes": ["Church & Unity", "Presence of God", "Prayer", "Revival"],\
    "summary": "A worship song centered on God\'92s presence among His people and the identity of the church as His dwelling. It is reflective and powerful for corporate prayer moments.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes the church as a Spirit-formed people, gathered around Jesus and shaped by God\'92s presence. It aligns with the biblical vision of the church as God\'92s temple and the community where Christ is exalted. It is best framed as a prayer for unity, holiness, and faithful witness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 2:19-22", "1 Peter 2:9-10", "Matthew 18:20"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is ideal for prayer nights, vision Sundays, or sets focused on unity and mission. Keep dynamics patient and do not rush the build. If you extend a bridge, guide it with specific prayer prompts for the church, the city, and the next generation.",\
    "seo_title": "The Church | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"The Church\\" by Bethel Music. Learn its themes of unity and God\'92s presence, plus practical tips for leading it in corporate prayer settings."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Mighty Name Of Jesus",\
    "artist": "The Belonging Co",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Eb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Spiritual Authority", "Prayer", "Victory", "Name of Jesus"],\
    "summary": "A prayerful declaration of the authority and victory found in the name of Jesus. It is bold yet pastoral, fitting for warfare and faith-filled prayer moments.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes Jesus\'92 authority over darkness and the believer\'92s confidence in His victory. It aligns with the biblical theme that Jesus\'92 name is exalted and that God equips His people to stand firm. Led well, it becomes a prayer of trust rooted in Christ\'92s finished work rather than fear.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "Colossians 2:13-15", "Ephesians 6:10-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use this in prayer ministry settings or when leading the church through fear and anxiety. Keep it steady and clearly sung. If you repeat the chorus, offer a short prompt inviting people to bring specific burdens to Jesus in prayer.",\
    "seo_title": "Mighty Name Of Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Mighty Name Of Jesus\\" by The Belonging Co. Explore its themes of spiritual authority and victory, plus practical tips for leading it wisely."\
  \}\
]\
\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Christus Victor (Amen)",\
    "artist": "Keith & Kristyn Getty",\
    "suggested_male_key": "F",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Ab",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 77,\
    "themes": ["Victory", "Cross", "Resurrection", "Gospel"],\
    "summary": "A modern hymn celebrating Christ\'92s victory through the cross and resurrection. It is doctrinal, singable, and ideal for gospel-centered worship sets.",\
    "theology": "The song proclaims Jesus as the victorious Savior who defeats sin and death. It centers on the cross as the decisive victory and the resurrection as the confirmation of Christ\'92s triumph. It is rich for formation because it builds courage and hope in the finished work of Jesus.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 Corinthians 15:54-57", "Colossians 2:13-15", "Romans 8:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead this with clarity and strong congregational phrasing. Keep verses restrained and let the chorus carry the weight. This pairs beautifully with communion, Good Friday, or a sermon series on the cross and resurrection.",\
    "seo_title": "Christus Victor (Amen) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Christus Victor (Amen)\\" by Keith and Kristyn Getty. Learn its cross and resurrection themes, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Know A Name",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 86,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Faith", "Healing", "Resurrection Power"],\
    "summary": "A worship song that magnifies the power and authority of Jesus\'92 name, emphasizing that He saves, heals, and raises the dead. It is strong for faith-building moments.",\
    "theology": "The song points to Jesus as Savior, Healer, and risen King, celebrating His authority over creation and death. It aligns with Scripture that presents Jesus\'92 name as exalted and central to salvation and deliverance. It is best framed as confidence in Christ, not emotional certainty.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Acts 4:12", "Philippians 2:9-11", "John 11:25-26"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use this when calling a congregation toward faith and prayer. Keep the tempo patient and the lyrics front and center. If you repeat the chorus, guide the room to call on Jesus specifically for salvation, healing, and hope.",\
    "seo_title": "I Know A Name | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"I Know A Name\\" by Elevation Worship. Explore its themes of Jesus\'92 authority and resurrection power, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Oceans (Where Feet May Fail)",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 63,\
    "themes": ["Trust", "Faith", "Surrender", "Presence of God"],\
    "summary": "A modern worship classic about stepping out in faith and trusting God in uncertainty. It is expansive and reflective, often used for response and prayer moments.",\
    "theology": "The song draws from the biblical imagery of Jesus calling Peter onto the water, using it as a metaphor for trusting God beyond comfort. It emphasizes dependence on God\'92s presence and the Spirit\'92s leading. It is strongest when led as a prayer of trust rooted in God\'92s character.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 14:28-31", "Isaiah 43:2", "Psalm 46:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep dynamics gradual and avoid rushing the build. This works well with prayer ministry, altar calls, or reflective sermon responses. Offer clear guidance if you extend sections so repetition stays purposeful.",\
    "seo_title": "Oceans (Where Feet May Fail) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Oceans (Where Feet May Fail)\\" by Hillsong UNITED. Learn its themes of trust and faith, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Here I Am To Worship",\
    "artist": "Tim Hughes",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 66,\
    "themes": ["Adoration", "Incarnation", "Surrender", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A beloved worship song that invites the congregation into adoration and surrender. It is simple, widely known, and works well as an early set anchor.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects on Jesus as the light of the world and points toward the cost of redemption. It encourages a posture of worshipful surrender and humility, acknowledging that Christ\'92s sacrifice shapes our response.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 1:4-5", "Philippians 2:6-11", "John 3:16"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Because many congregations know this well, use it to unify the room quickly. Keep the arrangement simple and let the chorus be sung confidently. This pairs well with communion or a short prayer of consecration.",\
    "seo_title": "Here I Am To Worship | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Here I Am To Worship\\" by Tim Hughes. Explore its themes of adoration and surrender, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Forever Reign",\
    "artist": "Hillsong Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "B",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Kingship of Jesus", "Grace", "Hope", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A reflective worship song celebrating God\'92s grace and Jesus\'92 eternal reign. It is steady, singable, and helps the church fix their eyes on God\'92s throne.",\
    "theology": "The song magnifies the eternal reign of Jesus and the grace of God that draws worship from grateful hearts. It reinforces that hope is anchored in the King who reigns forever, not in shifting circumstances.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 11:15", "Psalm 145:13", "Ephesians 2:4-5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep verses gentle and let the chorus be strong and confident. Consider using this before a sermon moment on hope, grace, or the kingdom. Avoid overcomplicating the instrumental parts so the congregation carries the weight.",\
    "seo_title": "Forever Reign | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Forever Reign\\" by Hillsong Worship. Learn its themes of grace and Jesus\'92 kingship, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Stand",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 90,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Devotion", "Lordship of Jesus", "Commitment"],\
    "summary": "A worship anthem of surrender and devotion, declaring that Jesus is worthy of our whole life. It is widely known and strong for consecration moments.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes wholehearted surrender to Jesus, reflecting the biblical call to offer our lives as worship. It points to God\'92s mercy and love as the basis for our response, and it frames commitment as an act of worship rooted in grace.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 12:1", "Galatians 2:20", "Luke 9:23"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works well as a set closer or sermon response. Keep the build gradual and give the congregation space to sing the chorus fully. If you extend the ending, guide it with a prayer of surrender rather than open-ended repetition.",\
    "seo_title": "The Stand | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"The Stand\\" by Hillsong UNITED. Explore its themes of surrender and devotion, plus practical tips for leading it as a consecration moment."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Surrender",\
    "artist": "Hillsong Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "F",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Ab",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 77,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Repentance", "Dependence", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A worship song of open-handed surrender, inviting the believer to yield fully to God. It is reflective and strong for response and prayer ministry moments.",\
    "theology": "The song expresses a biblical posture of surrender and dependence, inviting God\'92s mercy and presence to shape the heart. It aligns with repentance and consecration themes, framing surrender as trust-filled submission to God\'92s leadership.",\
    "scripture_references": ["James 4:7-8", "Psalm 51:10-12", "Romans 12:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead this with simplicity and avoid rushing. Make space for prayer after the chorus and allow moments of quiet. This is especially effective with communion, confession, or prayer ministry contexts.",\
    "seo_title": "I Surrender | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Surrender\\" by Hillsong Worship. Learn its themes of surrender and dependence, plus practical tips for leading it as a worship response."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Lord, I Lift Your Name on High",\
    "artist": "Rick Founds",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 112,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Gospel Narrative", "Joy", "Exaltation"],\
    "summary": "A classic praise chorus that summarizes the gospel story and lifts Jesus\'92 name with joy. It is simple, familiar, and works well as a quick celebration moment.",\
    "theology": "The song presents a clear gospel arc: Jesus came, died, rose, and is exalted. It reinforces basic Christian confession and invites joyful praise centered on Christ\'92s victory and exaltation.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "1 Corinthians 15:3-4", "Acts 2:32-33"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use this as an upbeat throwback or intergenerational bridge. Keep it bright and not too fast for the room. You can pair it with a short Scripture proclamation and then transition into a more modern celebration song.",\
    "seo_title": "Lord, I Lift Your Name on High | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Lord, I Lift Your Name on High\\" by Rick Founds. Explore its gospel summary and get practical tips for leading this classic praise chorus."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "In the Secret",\
    "artist": "Sonicflood",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 70,\
    "themes": ["Intimacy", "Presence of God", "Devotion", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A reflective worship song focused on meeting with God personally and cultivating intimacy in the secret place. It is gentle and prayerful.",\
    "theology": "The song encourages a devotion-centered relationship with God, aligning with biblical themes of seeking the Lord and abiding in His presence. It can be framed as a response to God\'92s initiating love, calling believers into faithful communion with Him.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 6:6", "Psalm 27:4", "John 15:4-5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep this one minimal and sincere. It works best in smaller gatherings, prayer nights, or reflective moments. Consider pairing it with a short invitation into silence and personal prayer.",\
    "seo_title": "In the Secret | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"In the Secret\\" by Sonicflood. Learn its themes of intimacy and devotion, plus practical tips for leading it in reflective worship."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Trading My Sorrows",\
    "artist": "Darrell Evans",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Freedom", "Perseverance", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A joyful declaration of exchanging heaviness for praise. It is upbeat, familiar, and works well for celebration or testimony Sundays.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects a biblical pattern of choosing praise in the midst of trial. It does not deny suffering, but redirects the heart toward joy rooted in God\'92s goodness. It can be framed as resilient worship that trusts God\'92s presence in hardship.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 61:3", "James 1:2-3", "Psalm 30:11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with a strong, steady groove and keep it easy to sing. This is great for intergenerational engagement. Consider shortening repeats so it stays punchy and celebratory.",\
    "seo_title": "Trading My Sorrows | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Trading My Sorrows\\" by Darrell Evans. Explore its themes of joy and perseverance, plus practical tips for leading it in congregational worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Better Is One Day",\
    "artist": "Matt Redman",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Presence of God", "Worship", "Desire for God", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A classic worship song expressing that God\'92s presence is better than anything else. It is joyful and widely known across generations.",\
    "theology": "The song echoes the biblical longing to dwell with God and delight in His presence. It forms desire for God above lesser goods, reinforcing that true joy is found near the Lord.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 84:10", "Psalm 16:11", "Psalm 27:4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is a great bridge between classic and modern sets. Keep it bright and not rushed. You can soften the bridge for a reflective moment, then return to the chorus with full congregational energy.",\
    "seo_title": "Better Is One Day | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Better Is One Day\\" by Matt Redman. Learn its themes of God\'92s presence and joy, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "All I Need Is You",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 70,\
    "themes": ["Dependence", "Grace", "Surrender", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A worship song centered on dependence and the sufficiency of God. It is reflective and helpful for forming a posture of trust and surrender.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes that God is enough and that the believer\'92s hope is found in Him. It aligns with biblical themes of grace, reliance, and finding satisfaction in God rather than self-sufficiency.",\
    "scripture_references": ["2 Corinthians 12:9", "Psalm 73:25-26", "Philippians 4:11-13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the arrangement simple and let the congregation sing the chorus clearly. This fits well after confession or as a response to a message about trust and dependence.",\
    "seo_title": "All I Need Is You | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"All I Need Is You\\" by Hillsong UNITED. Explore its themes of dependence and grace, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Come Thou Fount",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 84,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "Worship", "God's Faithfulness", "Devotion"],\
    "summary": "A beloved hymn celebrating God\'92s grace and faithfulness, often sung in both traditional and modern arrangements. It invites the church to remember and respond to God\'92s mercy.",\
    "theology": "The hymn is rich with grace language, calling believers to gratitude and continued dependence on God. It reflects a realistic view of the wandering heart and the need for God to bind us to Himself. It is deeply formational for shaping humility and worshipful remembrance.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 2:4-5", "Psalm 103:1-4", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "If using a modern arrangement, keep the melody recognizable so the room can sing. This pairs well with communion, confession, or any moment emphasizing grace. Consider briefly explaining an older phrase so the congregation understands what they are singing.",\
    "seo_title": "Come Thou Fount | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Come Thou Fount\\" (Traditional). Learn its themes of grace and God\'92s faithfulness, plus practical tips for leading it in modern or traditional contexts."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Be Thou My Vision",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Devotion", "Lordship of Jesus", "Wisdom", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A classic hymn-prayer asking God to be our vision and highest treasure. It is reverent, timeless, and excellent for shaping devotion and discipleship.",\
    "theology": "This hymn centers on God as the believer\'92s ultimate good, guiding sight, thought, and desire. It forms a Christ-centered worldview by asking for God\'92s wisdom and rule over the heart. It aligns with Scripture\'92s call to seek first the kingdom and treasure God above all.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 119:105", "Matthew 6:33", "Colossians 3:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it slowly enough for congregational phrasing. This works beautifully with piano, acoustic guitar, or simple pads. Consider using it as a response to a message about discipleship, worship, or spiritual formation.",\
    "seo_title": "Be Thou My Vision | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Be Thou My Vision\\" (Traditional). Explore its themes of devotion and God as our treasure, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 90,\
    "themes": ["Faithfulness", "Providence", "Hope", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A foundational hymn celebrating God\'92s unchanging faithfulness and daily mercies. It is steady, rich, and anchors the church in gratitude and trust.",\
    "theology": "The hymn proclaims God\'92s steadfast character and providential care, emphasizing that God does not change and that His mercies are new every morning. It forms durable faith by training believers to interpret life through God\'92s faithfulness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Lamentations 3:22-23", "James 1:17", "Psalm 36:5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is excellent for intergenerational worship. Keep it in a comfortable key and do not over-embellish the melody. Consider adding a modern pad or light rhythm to support congregational singing without changing the hymn\'92s character.",\
    "seo_title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Great Is Thy Faithfulness\\" (Traditional). Learn its themes of providence and mercy, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "It Is Well (traditional)",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 70,\
    "themes": ["Peace", "Suffering", "Trust", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A historic hymn of resilient faith, declaring peace in the midst of hardship. It is pastoral, weighty, and deeply meaningful in seasons of grief and trial.",\
    "theology": "The hymn models trust in God\'92s sovereignty and goodness amid suffering, pointing believers to the security of salvation and the hope of Christ\'92s return. It is a powerful formation song that teaches the church how to confess faith when emotions and circumstances are unstable.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 4:6-7", "Habakkuk 3:17-19", "2 Corinthians 4:16-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it slowly with space for reflection. This works well after intercessory prayer or in services addressing grief, anxiety, or loss. Consider reading Philippians 4:6-7 before singing to frame the peace of Christ clearly.",\
    "seo_title": "It Is Well | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of the hymn \\"It Is Well\\" (Traditional). Explore its themes of peace and trust in suffering, plus practical tips for leading it pastorally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "It Is Well (modern arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Bethel Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Peace", "Trust", "Hope", "Presence of God"],\
    "summary": "A modern take on the classic hymn that keeps the theme of peace in Christ while adding contemporary language and dynamics. It is strong for reflective worship and ministry time.",\
    "theology": "This arrangement preserves the hymn\'92s resilient faith and reinforces peace rooted in Christ rather than circumstances. It invites the church to bring anxiety and suffering into God\'92s presence with trust. It is best framed as gospel-anchored peace that does not deny pain.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 14:27", "Isaiah 26:3", "Romans 5:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep dynamics gradual and create space for prayer. This works well as a response song after a message on suffering or peace. If you extend an ending section, guide the repetition with Scripture or short prayer prompts.",\
    "seo_title": "It Is Well (Modern) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"It Is Well\\" in a modern worship arrangement by Bethel Music. Learn its themes of peace and trust, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Doxology (Praise God From Whom All Blessings Flow)",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 96,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Trinity", "Benediction", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A historic doxology that offers concise, Trinitarian praise. It is often used as a benediction or a short congregational moment of unified worship.",\
    "theology": "The doxology is explicitly Trinitarian, praising Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It forms the church by keeping worship centered on God\'92s glory and blessing. Its brevity makes it a powerful weekly habit that reinforces orthodox praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 11:36", "Matthew 28:19", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is excellent at the close of a service or after communion. Keep it in a key the whole room can sing and let voices carry without heavy instrumentation. Consider having the church sing it a cappella occasionally to reinforce unity and clarity.",\
    "seo_title": "Doxology | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of the \\"Doxology (Praise God From Whom All Blessings Flow).\\" Explore its Trinitarian praise and get practical tips for leading it as a benediction."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Blessed Assurance",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 92,\
    "themes": ["Assurance", "Salvation", "Joy", "Confidence in Christ"],\
    "summary": "A classic hymn celebrating assurance in Christ and the joy of belonging to Him. It is warm, familiar, and deeply pastoral.",\
    "theology": "The hymn emphasizes assurance grounded in salvation and the believer\'92s secure identity in Christ. It forms confident worship that flows from God\'92s grace, reinforcing that our hope rests in Jesus\'92 work and promise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 8:1", "1 John 5:11-13", "Ephesians 1:13-14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it in a singable key and avoid over-ornamentation. This works well after a gospel-centered sermon or during invitation moments. Consider adding a gentle modern pad underneath while preserving the melody.",\
    "seo_title": "Blessed Assurance | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Blessed Assurance\\" (Traditional). Learn its themes of salvation and confidence in Christ, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Gaze on Jesus", "Hope", "Surrender", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A simple, reflective hymn calling believers to fix their eyes on Jesus and find perspective as worldly things fade. It is gentle and deeply pastoral.",\
    "theology": "The hymn encourages a Christ-centered focus, aligning with the biblical call to look to Jesus as the author and perfecter of faith. It forms worship that reorients the heart from anxiety and distraction to the glory and sufficiency of Christ.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Hebrews 12:1-2", "2 Corinthians 4:18", "Colossians 3:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is strong after confession, during prayer ministry, or as a closing reflection. Keep accompaniment minimal and allow space between phrases. Consider reading Hebrews 12:1-2 before singing.",\
    "seo_title": "Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus\\" (Traditional). Explore its Christ-centered focus and get practical tips for leading it in reflective worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "All Creatures of Our God and King",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 112,\
    "themes": ["Creation", "Praise", "Adoration", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A joyful hymn inviting all creation to praise God. It is celebratory, intergenerational, and works well as a call to worship.",\
    "theology": "The hymn reflects the biblical theme that creation declares God\'92s glory and that all peoples are called to worship. It forms a God-centered imagination where praise is the rightful response of every creature to the Creator.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 148:1-13", "Romans 11:36", "Revelation 5:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with bright energy and strong congregational tempo. If using a modern arrangement, keep the melody clear. This pairs well with a creation-themed sermon, a thanksgiving moment, or a celebratory opener.",\
    "seo_title": "All Creatures of Our God and King | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"All Creatures of Our God and King\\" (Traditional). Learn its creation and praise themes, plus practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Rock of Ages",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 70,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "Atonement", "Refuge", "Trust"],\
    "summary": "A theologically rich hymn that finds refuge in Christ alone. It is reflective, weighty, and excellent for communion or confession-focused services.",\
    "theology": "The hymn emphasizes salvation by grace, the sufficiency of Christ\'92s atoning work, and the believer\'92s need for refuge in Jesus. It forms humility and dependence by refusing self-salvation and clinging to Christ as the only hope.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 3:23-24", "1 Peter 2:24", "Psalm 18:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it slow and prayerful. This is powerful with minimal accompaniment and clear lyric projection. Consider using it during communion or as a response to a message on grace and the cross.",\
    "seo_title": "Rock of Ages | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Rock of Ages\\" (Traditional). Explore its grace and refuge themes, plus practical tips for leading it in communion and confession settings."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "What a Friend We Have in Jesus",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 90,\
    "themes": ["Prayer", "Comfort", "Friendship with Jesus", "Trust"],\
    "summary": "A comforting hymn highlighting the gift of prayer and the kindness of Jesus. It is pastoral, familiar, and meaningful in seasons of burden and need.",\
    "theology": "The hymn encourages believers to bring every burden to Jesus in prayer, emphasizing Christ\'92s compassion and nearness. It forms a prayerful church by reminding worshipers that grace provides access and that Christ cares for His people.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 Peter 5:7", "Philippians 4:6-7", "Hebrews 4:15-16"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works beautifully for pastoral moments, prayer services, and funerals. Keep it in a comfortable key and let the congregation sing without rushing. Consider pairing it with a short prayer of intercession.",\
    "seo_title": "What a Friend We Have in Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"What a Friend We Have in Jesus\\" (Traditional). Learn its themes of prayer and comfort, plus practical tips for leading it pastorally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "O Holy Night",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Incarnation", "Awe", "Christmas", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A beloved Christmas carol marked by wonder and reverence at the birth of Christ. It is dramatic, beautiful, and often used as a special moment in Advent services.",\
    "theology": "The carol celebrates the incarnation and the hope Christ brings into a weary world. It points to the light of Christ breaking into darkness and invites worshipful awe at the Savior\'92s coming. It can be framed as gospel hope, not mere seasonal nostalgia.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:10-14", "John 1:14", "Isaiah 9:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Because the range can be demanding, choose a key that serves your vocalist and congregation. Use this as a feature moment or a reflective carol set piece. Keep accompaniment supportive and let the lyric narrative carry the impact.",\
    "seo_title": "O Holy Night | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"O Holy Night\\" (Traditional). Explore its incarnation themes and get practical tips for leading it well in Advent and Christmas services."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "O Come All Ye Faithful",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 100,\
    "themes": ["Incarnation", "Adoration", "Christmas", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A classic Christmas carol inviting the church to adore the newborn King. It is joyful, strong for congregational singing, and a staple of Advent worship.",\
    "theology": "The carol calls believers to behold and worship Christ, emphasizing adoration directed to Jesus as Lord. It reinforces the glory of the incarnation and the proper response of worship and praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 2:1-11", "Luke 2:15-20", "Philippians 2:9-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is ideal for big congregational moments. Keep the tempo confident and let the chorus be strong and unified. Consider adding a simple tag that repeats the call to adore Christ, but keep it easy for the room.",\
    "seo_title": "O Come All Ye Faithful | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"O Come All Ye Faithful\\" (Traditional). Learn its themes of adoration and incarnation, plus practical tips for leading it in Christmas worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Hark! The Herald Angels Sing",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 108,\
    "themes": ["Incarnation", "Good News", "Christmas", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A rich Christmas carol proclaiming the gospel announcement of Christ\'92s birth. It is joyful and packed with theological depth.",\
    "theology": "The carol proclaims the incarnation, peace, and salvation, celebrating Jesus as the newborn King who brings reconciliation. It is doctrinally dense for a carol, reinforcing core truths about Christ\'92s identity and mission.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:13-14", "2 Corinthians 5:18-19", "John 1:14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Because the lyrics move quickly, keep the tempo comfortable and project words clearly. This works well with brass or full band, but it also sings beautifully with piano. Consider briefly highlighting one lyric line to help the congregation engage with its meaning.",\
    "seo_title": "Hark! The Herald Angels Sing | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Hark! The Herald Angels Sing\\" (Traditional). Explore its gospel-rich incarnation themes and get practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Angels We Have Heard on High",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Praise", "Good News", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A joyful carol celebrating the angelic announcement of Jesus\'92 birth, featuring the famous Gloria refrain. It is festive and great for congregational singing.",\
    "theology": "The carol echoes the angelic proclamation of peace and glory to God, pointing to Christ\'92s birth as good news. It directs attention to God\'92s glory and invites the church to respond in praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:8-14", "Psalm 96:1-3", "Revelation 5:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the tempo lively but not rushed so the congregation can sing the Gloria. This works well in a Christmas set that alternates between celebration and reflection. Consider adding simple vocal harmonies on the refrain for a big congregational sound.",\
    "seo_title": "Angels We Have Heard on High | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Angels We Have Heard on High\\" (Traditional). Learn its Christmas praise themes and get practical tips for leading it in festive worship sets."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Joy to the World",\
    "artist": "Traditional",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Kingship of Jesus", "Christmas", "Joy", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A celebratory carol declaring the coming reign of the Lord. It is joyful, triumphant, and a dependable Christmas worship opener or closer.",\
    "theology": "The carol celebrates the reign of the Lord and the fitting response of creation to His coming. It points beyond the manger to the King who rules and renews the world, forming an eschatological joy that looks to Christ\'92s ultimate victory.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 98:4-9", "Revelation 11:15", "Isaiah 52:7-10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works best with strong tempo and crisp articulation. If using a modern arrangement, keep the melody prominent so everyone can sing. Consider ending with a final a cappella line to let the congregation carry the joy.",\
    "seo_title": "Joy to the World | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Joy to the World\\" (Traditional). Explore its themes of Jesus\'92 kingship and creation\'92s praise, plus practical tips for leading it in Christmas worship."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Doxology (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Doxology", "Trinity", "Praise", "Benediction"],\
    "summary": "A modern setting of the classic doxology that retains its Trinitarian clarity while using contemporary dynamics and instrumentation. It works especially well as a closing response or benediction.",\
    "theology": "This text is explicitly Trinitarian praise, directing worship to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. A modern arrangement can help the church sing historic truth with fresh accessibility, reinforcing that worship is ultimately God-centered and doxological.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 11:36", "Matthew 28:19", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it simple and let the congregation carry the melody. Try starting with just piano or acoustic guitar, then add light pads on the second pass. Consider ending a cappella for unity and weight.",\
    "seo_title": "Doxology (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of the Doxology in a modern worship arrangement. Learn its Trinitarian focus and get practical tips for using it as a closing benediction."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Come Thou Fount (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "Worship", "God's Faithfulness", "Devotion"],\
    "summary": "A modern take on the classic hymn that keeps the theme of grace and God\'92s faithfulness while offering a contemporary musical frame. It is strong for confession, communion, and gospel-focused sets.",\
    "theology": "The hymn celebrates God\'92s grace and acknowledges the believer\'92s tendency to wander, asking God to bind the heart to Himself. A modern arrangement can emphasize the pastoral honesty of the text while keeping the gospel center clear.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 2:4-5", "Psalm 103:1-4", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "If your congregation is unfamiliar with older phrases, explain one line briefly before singing. Keep the melody recognizable and avoid overcomplicating the rhythm. Pair well with a short prayer of confession and assurance.",\
    "seo_title": "Come Thou Fount (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Come Thou Fount\\" in a modern arrangement. Explore its grace-filled theology and get practical tips for leading it in contemporary worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Be Thou My Vision (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Devotion", "Discipleship", "Lordship of Jesus", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement of the classic hymn-prayer that asks God to be our highest treasure and guiding vision. It is excellent for formation and consecration moments.",\
    "theology": "This hymn forms a Christ-centered worldview by naming God as wisdom, treasure, and King. A modern arrangement can help the congregation internalize the text as a sung prayer of surrender and discipleship, not merely nostalgia.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Colossians 3:1-2", "Matthew 6:33", "Psalm 27:4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with a patient tempo and keep the harmony easy for the room. Consider singing one verse with minimal instruments, then building into a fuller chorus or refrain if your arrangement has one.",\
    "seo_title": "Be Thou My Vision (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Be Thou My Vision\\" in a modern arrangement. Learn its discipleship themes and get practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 82,\
    "themes": ["Faithfulness", "Providence", "Hope", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement of the beloved hymn celebrating God\'92s unchanging faithfulness and daily mercy. It bridges generations while keeping the text central.",\
    "theology": "The hymn anchors worship in God\'92s unchanging character and His mercies that renew each morning. A modern arrangement can highlight the pastoral strength of the lyric and help the church interpret life through God\'92s faithfulness rather than circumstances.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Lamentations 3:22-23", "James 1:17", "Psalm 36:5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the chorus big and singable, and avoid syncopation that makes the words hard to land. This is powerful after testimonies or during seasons of uncertainty when the church needs stability.",\
    "seo_title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Great Is Thy Faithfulness\\" in a modern arrangement. Explore its themes of mercy and providence, plus practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Blessed Assurance (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 84,\
    "themes": ["Assurance", "Salvation", "Joy", "Confidence in Christ"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement that keeps the hymn\'92s joyful assurance while making it feel current for contemporary services. It is excellent for gospel invitations and response moments.",\
    "theology": "The hymn celebrates assurance rooted in salvation and union with Christ. A modern arrangement can reinforce that confidence is grounded in Jesus\'92 work, not personal performance, and can help the church sing assurance with fresh conviction.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 John 5:11-13", "Romans 8:1", "Ephesians 1:13-14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Choose a key that keeps the melody comfortable for the congregation. Let the chorus be bright and confident, and consider a short spoken assurance of grace before the final chorus.",\
    "seo_title": "Blessed Assurance (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Blessed Assurance\\" in a modern arrangement. Learn its gospel assurance themes and get practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "All Creatures of Our God and King (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 112,\
    "themes": ["Creation", "Praise", "Joy", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement of a joyful hymn calling all creation to praise God. It is upbeat, unifying, and works well as an opener or celebratory call to worship.",\
    "theology": "The hymn reflects the biblical truth that all creation declares God\'92s glory and that praise is the fitting response to the Creator. A modern arrangement can amplify congregational participation while keeping the doxological center intact.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 148:1-13", "Psalm 96:1-4", "Revelation 5:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the tempo steady and the melody prominent. Encourage strong congregational singing on the repeated praise line. This pairs well with a short Scripture call to worship from Psalm 148.",\
    "seo_title": "All Creatures (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"All Creatures of Our God and King\\" in a modern arrangement. Explore its creation praise themes and get practical tips for leading it with joy."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "O Come All Ye Faithful (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 96,\
    "themes": ["Incarnation", "Adoration", "Christmas", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement of the classic carol that keeps its call to adore Christ while adding contemporary feel. It works well for big Christmas services and candlelight gatherings.",\
    "theology": "The carol invites the church to behold and worship Jesus as Lord, celebrating the incarnation and the proper response of adoration. A modern arrangement can help the room sing boldly while staying centered on Christ\'92s identity.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:15-20", "Matthew 2:10-11", "John 1:14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Make the chorus massive and easy for the room. If you add a tag, keep it short and repeatable. This pairs well with a Scripture reading from Luke 2 right before singing.",\
    "seo_title": "O Come All Ye Faithful (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"O Come All Ye Faithful\\" in a modern arrangement. Learn its incarnation and adoration themes, plus practical tips for leading it in Christmas worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Joy to the World (Modern Arrangement)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Kingship of Jesus", "Joy", "Christmas", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A modern arrangement of the triumphant carol celebrating the reign of the Lord. It is joyful, energetic, and perfect for Christmas openings or closings.",\
    "theology": "The carol celebrates the coming reign of the Lord and calls creation to respond in praise. A modern arrangement can highlight that this is not only a Christmas song but also a kingdom song that points toward Christ\'92s ultimate victory and renewal of all things.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 98:4-9", "Revelation 11:15", "Isaiah 52:7-10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep articulation crisp so lyrics land clearly at faster tempos. Let the congregation carry the melody strongly, and consider an a cappella final line or chorus to end with unity and joy.",\
    "seo_title": "Joy to the World (Modern Arrangement) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Joy to the World\\" in a modern arrangement. Explore its themes of Jesus\'92 kingship and creation\'92s praise, plus practical tips for leading it in Christmas worship."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "I Speak Jesus",\
    "artist": "Charity Gayle",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 76,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Healing", "Freedom", "Spiritual Warfare"],\
    "summary": "A declarative worship anthem that centers the power and peace found in the name of Jesus, spoken over anxiety, fear, sickness, families, and communities.",\
    "theology": "This song is built around the biblical confession that Jesus is Lord and that His name carries authority. It echoes the New Testament pattern of proclaiming Jesus as the decisive hope for salvation, deliverance, and peace. It is less a narrative and more a pastoral declaration, inviting the church to actively speak gospel truth into real areas of need.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "Acts 4:12", "Romans 10:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it like a congregational prayer. Briefly name the categories the song names (fear, anxiety, family, church) and invite people to participate verbally. Keep the groove steady and let the room sing the chorus repeatedly without over-explaining.",\
    "seo_title": "I Speak Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Speak Jesus\\" (Charity Gayle), key themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading this modern declaration song."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "This Is Our God",\
    "artist": "Phil Wickham",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Gospel", "Testimony", "Salvation", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A gospel-centered testimony song that celebrates God\'92s rescue and invites the church to declare who God is and what He has done.",\
    "theology": "The lyrics lean heavily into salvation language and personal testimony, celebrating deliverance from sin and shame and magnifying Christ as Savior. It functions like a sung confession: the church is not only describing God, but publicly identifying with Him and His redemption.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 145:3", "Ephesians 2:4-5", "1 Peter 2:9"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Best when you build energy gradually. Let verse 1 feel like testimony, then open the chorus wide with full band. If the room is new to it, repeat the chorus once early to lock it in.",\
    "seo_title": "This Is Our God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"This Is Our God\\" (Phil Wickham), its gospel themes, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "God So Loved",\
    "artist": "We The Kingdom",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 75,\
    "themes": ["Invitation", "Gospel", "Grace", "Salvation"],\
    "summary": "An invitational gospel song that calls the weary and the sinner to come to Jesus, grounded in John 3:16 language and the welcome of the cross.",\
    "theology": "This song is a clear proclamation of the gospel: God\'92s love displayed in giving the Son, the open invitation to believe, and the defeat of hell through Christ\'92s work. It pairs evangelistic clarity with pastoral warmth, emphasizing that Jesus meets people with open arms.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 3:16", "Matthew 11:28-30", "Romans 5:8"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great for response moments. Keep the verses intimate and unhurried, then let the chorus lift with the congregation. Consider pairing it with communion or a simple gospel invitation that stays gentle and non-manipulative.",\
    "seo_title": "God So Loved | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"God So Loved\\" (We The Kingdom), key gospel themes, Scripture references, and worship leader tips for leading a strong response moment."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Joy",\
    "artist": "The Belonging Co",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Db",\
    "suggested_female_key": "E",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 150,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Strength", "Praise", "Celebration"],\
    "summary": "An upbeat celebration song centered on the biblical truth that the joy of the Lord is our strength, aimed at lifting faith and corporate praise.",\
    "theology": "The theme is classic biblical worship: joy rooted in God\'92s character and presence, not circumstances. It aligns with the scriptural vision of resilient praise, where worship becomes a weapon against despair and a testimony of trust.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Nehemiah 8:10", "Psalm 16:11", "Habakkuk 3:17-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Treat it like a praise break. Keep transitions crisp, push the singable hook, and consider shorter exhortation between sections so momentum stays high. Great as an opener or post-sermon celebration.",\
    "seo_title": "The Joy | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Learn the meaning of \\"The Joy\\" (The Belonging Co), its Scripture themes, and practical worship leader tips for leading a high-energy joy anthem."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "No One Like The Lord (We Crown You)",\
    "artist": "Circuit Rider Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Worthy", "Jesus Enthroned", "Adoration", "Revelation"],\
    "summary": "A worship song focused on the worthiness of Jesus, echoing throne-room imagery and the church\'92s response of adoration and surrender.",\
    "theology": "The lyrics draw from Revelation worship scenes, emphasizing Jesus as the worthy Lamb and the proper response of creatures and elders: worship. It reinforces the transcendence of Christ and the humility of the church before Him.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 5:11-13", "Philippians 2:10-11", "Psalm 29:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Leave space. This song often lands best with less talk and longer musical room for the congregation to engage. Build dynamically, but avoid rushing the chorus so the room can actually sing it.",\
    "seo_title": "No One Like The Lord (We Crown You) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"No One Like The Lord (We Crown You)\\" (Circuit Rider Music), its Revelation themes, and practical tips for leading an adoration-focused set."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Our God Reigns (Over All The Earth)",\
    "artist": "Martin Smith, Kari Jobe & Cody Carnes",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Kingship", "Sovereignty", "Praise", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A modern congregational declaration celebrating God\'92s reign over all the earth, inviting confidence, worship, and hope.",\
    "theology": "This is a kingship song that places God\'92s rule at the center of the church\'92s imagination. It emphasizes God\'92s authority and presence, pushing worship upward when culture and circumstances feel unstable.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 97:1", "Psalm 47:7-8", "Matthew 6:10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Best when led with conviction, not volume alone. Keep the rhythm steady and let the chorus become a repeated declaration. Great as a post-sermon response on God\'92s sovereignty and trust.",\
    "seo_title": "Our God Reigns (Over All The Earth) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Our God Reigns (Over All The Earth)\\" (Martin Smith, Kari Jobe & Cody Carnes) with Scripture connections and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "What An Awesome God",\
    "artist": "Phil Wickham",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 73,\
    "themes": ["Awe", "Praise", "God's Greatness", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A modern praise song that highlights the awe and wonder due to God, inviting the church into wholehearted admiration and worship.",\
    "theology": "The song is doxological at its core, focusing on God\'92s greatness and the appropriate human response: worship. It carries the biblical posture of reverence, wonder, and proclamation, drawing the church out of self-focus into God-focus.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 145:1-3", "Isaiah 6:1-3", "Revelation 4:11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Let the chorus be the anchor. If the bridge lifts, make sure it still supports congregational singing rather than becoming a performance moment. Pair well with other songs of adoration and holiness.",\
    "seo_title": "What An Awesome God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"What An Awesome God\\" (Phil Wickham), key themes of awe and praise, and practical worship leader tips for congregational engagement."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Wonderful Counselor",\
    "artist": "Pat Barrett",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 86,\
    "themes": ["Help", "Guidance", "Peace", "Trust"],\
    "summary": "A worship song that celebrates God as near, faithful, and personal, naming Jesus as Wonderful Counselor and source of help.",\
    "theology": "This song emphasizes God\'92s nearness and care, portraying Jesus as the One who walks with His people and provides help. It aligns with a relational theology of dependence, where worship includes honest need and confident trust.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 9:6", "Psalm 46:1", "Hebrews 4:16"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Strong for pastoral ministry moments. Keep the vocal delivery warm and simple. If the congregation is new to it, repeat the chorus early and keep instrumentation supportive rather than busy.",\
    "seo_title": "Wonderful Counselor | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Wonderful Counselor\\" (Pat Barrett), its themes of trust and help, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Gift We Bring",\
    "artist": "The Belonging Co",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 90,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Incarnation", "Praise", "Worship Offering"],\
    "summary": "A Christmas worship song that frames our response to the incarnation as praise, offering worship as our gift to King Jesus.",\
    "theology": "The lyrics center on the coming of Christ and the fitting response of worship. It contrasts material gifts with the offering of praise, echoing the biblical theme that God delights in hearts turned toward Him and voices that exalt His name.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:10-14", "Matthew 2:10-11", "Hebrews 13:15"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Ideal for Advent and Christmas sets. Keep it joyful and uncluttered so lyrics land. Consider pairing it with a Scripture reading from Luke 2 to frame the moment.",\
    "seo_title": "The Gift We Bring | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"The Gift We Bring\\" (The Belonging Co), its incarnation themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for Christmas services."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Rejoice Again",\
    "artist": "Lakewood Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 151,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Encouragement", "Hope", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "An upbeat encouragement song that calls the church to rejoice, even in difficulty, with resilient praise and faith.",\
    "theology": "The song leans into the biblical command and invitation to rejoice, emphasizing that joy is not denial but a faith-filled response to God\'92s goodness and presence. It reflects the New Testament posture of praise that persists through trial.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 4:4", "1 Thessalonians 5:16-18", "Psalm 30:5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great as an opener or a post-sermon lift. Keep the tempo confident and the band tight. If your room is learning it, use a clear vocal lead and avoid too many ad libs on the first pass.",\
    "seo_title": "Rejoice Again | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Rejoice Again\\" (Lakewood Music), key themes of joy and resilience, and practical worship leader tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "What A Savior",\
    "artist": "Rock City Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Eb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Gb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 71,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Incarnation", "Gospel", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A worshipful gospel song that marvels at the humility of Jesus, celebrating the King who came near and became our Savior.",\
    "theology": "This song ties incarnation wonder to gospel worship, highlighting the King of Kings who enters our world in humility. It invites the church to respond with hallelujah praise rooted in who Jesus is and what He has done.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 1:14", "Philippians 2:6-8", "Luke 2:10-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it tenderly and let the chorus breathe. This works especially well in Christmas services but also anytime you want a Christological focus. Keep dynamics gentle so the congregation can sing comfortably.",\
    "seo_title": "What A Savior | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"What A Savior\\" (Rock City Worship), its incarnation and gospel themes, and practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "All This In A Name",\
    "artist": "Pat Barrett",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 150,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Authority", "Praise", "Deliverance"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy declaration that celebrates the saving and transforming power of the name of Jesus.",\
    "theology": "This song highlights Jesus\'92 authority and saving power, echoing the biblical theme that His name is above every name. It functions as a congregational confession of faith and praise, naming what Christ does: saves, heals, delivers, and changes everything.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "Acts 3:6", "Colossians 1:13-14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it punchy and simple so the congregation can follow. If you repeat sections, cue clearly and let the room carry the hook. Great in a set focused on victory and faith.",\
    "seo_title": "All This In A Name | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"All This In A Name\\" (Pat Barrett), with themes of Jesus\'92 authority and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Our Response",\
    "artist": "Bella Taylor Smith",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Obedience", "Worship Response", "Devotion"],\
    "summary": "A reflective response song that invites the church to answer God\'92s goodness with surrender and wholehearted worship.",\
    "theology": "The song frames worship as a response to God\'92s initiative and grace. It reflects the biblical pattern of offering ourselves to God as a living sacrifice, not merely offering words but yielding our lives.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 12:1", "Psalm 116:12-14", "John 14:15"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use it after a sermon or ministry moment. Keep the arrangement sparse and let silence have a place. If you have spontaneous prayer, keep it anchored and short so the song can do its work.",\
    "seo_title": "Our Response | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Our Response\\" (Bella Taylor Smith), Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading a powerful response moment."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Forever & Amen",\
    "artist": "Cody Carnes",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 84,\
    "themes": ["Faithfulness", "Trust", "Prayer", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A worship song shaped like a prayer of trust, celebrating God\'92s faithfulness and inviting steady confidence in Him.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes God\'92s unchanging character and the security of trusting Him. It resonates with the biblical theme of blessing the Lord in every season, anchoring worship in God\'92s eternal reliability.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 103:1-5", "Lamentations 3:22-23", "Hebrews 13:8"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead with warmth, not hype. This one works well mid-set as a stabilizing song. Encourage the room to sing the refrain like a confession of faith.",\
    "seo_title": "Forever & Amen | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Forever & Amen\\" (Cody Carnes), key themes of trust and faithfulness, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Garment Of Praise",\
    "artist": "Martin Smith",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 126,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Freedom", "Praise", "Breakthrough"],\
    "summary": "A joyful praise anthem that calls believers to lay down heaviness and put on praise, rooted in the promise of God\'92s renewing joy.",\
    "theology": "Drawing directly from Isaiah\'92s imagery, the song invites a faith response: exchanging sorrow for praise through God\'92s restoring work. It frames praise as both obedience and spiritual formation, shaping the heart toward joy and trust.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 61:3", "Nehemiah 8:10", "Psalm 30:11-12"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This can function like a turning point in the set. Keep it moving and let the chorus repeat enough for the room to engage. If you do the paired moment with another song, keep the transition intentional and not chaotic.",\
    "seo_title": "Garment Of Praise | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Garment Of Praise\\" (Martin Smith), Isaiah 61 themes, and practical worship leader tips for leading a joy-filled breakthrough moment."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Undignified",\
    "artist": "Brooke Ligertwood & Passion",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 146,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Freedom", "Worship", "Abandon"],\
    "summary": "A high-joy worship song that celebrates wholehearted, unashamed worship before the Lord, embracing freedom over self-consciousness.",\
    "theology": "The song echoes the biblical vision of embodied worship and holy joy, where love for God outweighs fear of people. It reinforces that worship is directed to God alone and can include joyful expression as a fitting response to His worthiness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["2 Samuel 6:14-22", "Psalm 149:3", "Psalm 95:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead this only if your room is ready for it. Model joy without pressure. Keep the band tight, simplify vocal runs, and let the congregation shout the hook without turning it into a performance.",\
    "seo_title": "Undignified | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Undignified\\" (Brooke Ligertwood & Passion), its biblical roots in joyful worship, and practical tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Praise The Lord Forever",\
    "artist": "Pat Barrett",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 105,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Faithfulness", "Endurance", "Thanksgiving"],\
    "summary": "A steady praise song that calls the church to bless the Lord with perseverance, rooted in God\'92s enduring love.",\
    "theology": "This is doxology formed in everyday life, praising God not only in wins but in ongoing faithfulness. The song aligns with the Psalms, where worship is a decision anchored in God\'92s steadfast love and worthiness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 103:1-2", "Psalm 136:1", "Hebrews 13:15"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great mid-set. Keep the groove consistent and invite the room into sustained singing. If you repeat a chorus, cue clearly and let the congregation carry it rather than over-adlibbing.",\
    "seo_title": "Praise The Lord Forever | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Praise The Lord Forever\\" (Pat Barrett), Scripture themes of enduring praise, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Hallelujah In The Hard Things",\
    "artist": "Bryan & Katie Torwalt",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Ab",\
    "suggested_female_key": "B",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 75,\
    "themes": ["Suffering", "Trust", "Perseverance", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A worship song for suffering that helps the church practice praise in the middle of pain, declaring God\'92s goodness without denial.",\
    "theology": "The song forms resilient faith, echoing the biblical practice of lament and praise together. It reinforces that God is present in suffering and that praise can be an act of trust when outcomes are unresolved.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Habakkuk 3:17-19", "Psalm 34:1", "2 Corinthians 4:16-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Do not rush this. Keep dynamics gentle and let the chorus become a repeated prayer. Pair well with a pastoral moment, intercession, or a testimony of God\'92s faithfulness in hardship.",\
    "seo_title": "Hallelujah In The Hard Things | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Hallelujah In The Hard Things\\" (Bryan & Katie Torwalt), its themes of trust in suffering, and worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Worship!",\
    "artist": "TAYA",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 138,\
    "themes": ["Adoration", "Awe", "Praise", "Jesus"],\
    "summary": "A modern worship song aimed at wholehearted adoration, calling the church to fix attention on Jesus with reverence and awe.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes the God-centered nature of worship, pulling the heart away from distraction and back to adoration. It aligns with the biblical vision of magnifying the Lord and centering corporate worship on His worthiness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 96:9", "Psalm 34:3", "Revelation 4:11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the chorus extremely singable by simplifying leader phrasing. If you build, build with congregational clarity, not vocal complexity. Great as an opener when you want immediate focus and lift.",\
    "seo_title": "Worship! | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Worship!\\" (TAYA), themes of awe and adoration, and practical worship leader tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Keep On Finding More",\
    "artist": "John Allan & Mack Brock",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Db",\
    "suggested_female_key": "E",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 172,\
    "themes": ["Gratitude", "Testimony", "Joy", "God's Goodness"],\
    "summary": "A fast, joyful testimony song celebrating the endless goodness of God and inviting the church into grateful praise.",\
    "theology": "The song forms gratitude as a spiritual reflex, encouraging believers to remember God\'92s faithfulness and keep discovering His goodness. It echoes the biblical pattern of recounting God\'92s works as fuel for praise and trust.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 103:2", "Psalm 145:4-7", "James 1:17"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is rhythmic and quick, so lock the click and keep it tight. Teach the hook before you go full speed if the room is new. Best as an opener or post-sermon celebration when energy is high.",\
    "seo_title": "Keep On Finding More | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Keep On Finding More\\" (John Allan & Mack Brock), its themes of gratitude and joy, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "How Good It Is",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Ab",\
    "suggested_female_key": "B",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 112,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "God's Goodness", "Thanksgiving", "Scripture"],\
    "summary": "A Scripture-saturated praise song celebrating the goodness of God and inviting the church into steady, joyful worship.",\
    "theology": "The song functions like a Psalm put to melody, emphasizing God\'92s enduring love and the call to praise Him from morning to night. It reinforces worship as remembrance and proclamation, shaping the church\'92s imagination through biblical language.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 100:4-5", "Psalm 113:3", "Psalm 92:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it singable and consistent. Avoid overcomplicating the groove. If you want deeper engagement, read a short Psalm line before the first chorus and let the congregation connect the words to Scripture.",\
    "seo_title": "How Good It Is | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"How Good It Is\\" (Chris Tomlin), its Scripture-rooted themes, and practical worship leader tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Hallelujah Everyday",\
    "artist": "The Belonging Co",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Db",\
    "suggested_female_key": "E",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 153,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Joy", "Daily Worship", "Gratitude"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy praise song designed to form everyday worship, training the church to live with ongoing gratitude and joy.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes worship as a daily posture, not only a Sunday event. It aligns with the biblical call to continual praise and thanksgiving, shaping discipleship through repeated confession and celebration.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 34:1", "1 Thessalonians 5:16-18", "Psalm 146:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Treat it like a celebration track. Keep the band tight, simplify vocal lines, and cue repeats clearly. Great early in the set to lift the room and set a tone of joy.",\
    "seo_title": "Hallelujah Everyday | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Hallelujah Everyday\\" (The Belonging Co), its themes of daily praise and joy, plus practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Will Rise",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection Hope", "Eternal Life", "Comfort", "Heaven"],\
    "summary": "A resurrection-hope anthem that comforts the church with the promise of eternal life and future restoration in Christ.",\
    "theology": "The song is anchored in Christian eschatological hope: death is not the end, and believers will rise with Christ. It echoes the New Testament promise of resurrection and the future renewal of all things, offering comfort for grief and perseverance.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 Thessalonians 4:13-18", "1 Corinthians 15:51-57", "Revelation 21:1-4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Best in reflective moments, funerals, memorial Sundays, or as a response after preaching on hope. Keep the instrumentation supportive and let the congregation sit in the chorus without rushing.",\
    "seo_title": "I Will Rise | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"I Will Rise\\" (Chris Tomlin), its resurrection hope themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Your Grace Is Enough",\
    "artist": "Matt Maher",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 126,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "Faithfulness", "Joy", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A joyful worship song celebrating God\'92s faithful grace as sufficient for every season.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes grace as God\'92s active, sustaining kindness, not merely a concept. It draws on the biblical story of God\'92s covenant faithfulness and forms gratitude, confidence, and praise in response to His mercy.",\
    "scripture_references": ["2 Corinthians 12:9", "Lamentations 3:22-23", "Ephesians 2:8-9"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is a strong congregational driver. Keep it bright and forward. Great as a set starter or a reset after a heavy moment because it lifts the room with gospel confidence.",\
    "seo_title": "Your Grace Is Enough | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Your Grace Is Enough\\" (Matt Maher), themes of grace and faithfulness, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Your Great Name",\
    "artist": "Natalie Grant",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Healing", "Deliverance", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A worship anthem exalting the name of Jesus as powerful to save, heal, and deliver.",\
    "theology": "The song centers Christ\'92s authority and compassion, presenting His name as the decisive hope for the broken and the lost. It aligns with biblical worship that magnifies Jesus as Savior and King and invites trust in His power and mercy.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Acts 4:12", "Philippians 2:9-11", "Psalm 145:18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it prayerful. This often functions well as a ministry moment, especially if you avoid rushing. Let the congregation hold the chorus and keep vocal ad libs secondary to corporate singing.",\
    "seo_title": "Your Great Name | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Your Great Name\\" (Natalie Grant), themes of Jesus\'92 authority and compassion, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "From The Inside Out",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 69,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Holiness", "Heart Change", "Devotion"],\
    "summary": "A surrender song asking God to transform worship beyond outward action into inward renewal and wholehearted devotion.",\
    "theology": "This song reflects the biblical priority of the heart: God desires truth in the inner being and worship that flows from genuine love. It aligns with spiritual formation language, inviting sanctification, integrity, and a life shaped by God\'92s presence.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 51:6", "Romans 12:1-2", "John 4:23-24"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it slowly and sincerely. This is most effective when you resist over-production and let the prayerful lines land. Works well before communion or in a confession and surrender moment.",\
    "seo_title": "From The Inside Out | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"From The Inside Out\\" (Hillsong UNITED), its formation themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Lead Me To The Cross",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Cross", "Surrender", "Grace", "Dependence"],\
    "summary": "A prayer of surrender that asks Jesus to re-center our lives on the cross and His sacrificial love.",\
    "theology": "The song is cross-centered and repentance-adjacent, emphasizing human weakness and Christ\'92s sufficiency. It invites reorientation, calling the church back to the gospel as the foundation for worship and life.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Galatians 2:20", "1 Peter 2:24", "Hebrews 12:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it intimate and direct. The bridge often becomes the emotional core, so do not rush into it. This pairs well with a gospel-centered prayer, communion, or reflection moment.",\
    "seo_title": "Lead Me To The Cross | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Lead Me To The Cross\\" (Hillsong UNITED), its cross-centered themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Because He Lives (Amen)",\
    "artist": "Matt Maher",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Mid",\
    "bpm": 94,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection", "Hope", "Victory", "Gospel"],\
    "summary": "A resurrection declaration that celebrates Christ\'92s victory and anchors the church\'92s hope in the living Jesus.",\
    "theology": "This song is explicitly resurrection-focused, proclaiming the living Christ as the basis for courage, hope, and new life. It echoes the apostolic message that death has been defeated and that believers live in confident expectation.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 Corinthians 15:20-22", "Romans 6:4", "Matthew 28:5-6"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Perfect for Easter season, baptisms, and any victory-focused set. Keep the chorus big and let the congregation sing the Amen with full confidence. Watch transitions so you do not break momentum.",\
    "seo_title": "Because He Lives (Amen) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Because He Lives (Amen)\\" (Matt Maher), its resurrection hope, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "It Is Well (Kristene DiMarco / Bethel Music)",\
    "artist": "Bethel Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Peace", "Trust", "Suffering", "Surrender"],\
    "summary": "A modern worship adaptation that centers peace and trust in God, even in suffering, using the classic refrain as a faith confession.",\
    "theology": "The song forms resilient trust, proclaiming that peace is possible because of God\'92s presence and goodness, not because circumstances are easy. It aligns with biblical lament and confidence, teaching the church to anchor in God\'92s faithfulness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 4:6-7", "Isaiah 26:3", "Psalm 46:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead this as a pastoral moment. Keep the arrangement minimal at first and build slowly. Allow space after key lines for the room to breathe and pray.",\
    "seo_title": "It Is Well (Bethel) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"It Is Well\\" (Kristene DiMarco / Bethel Music), its themes of peace and trust, Scripture connections, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Great I Am",\
    "artist": "New Life Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 66,\
    "themes": ["Holiness", "God's Presence", "Reverence", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A reverent worship song that exalts God\'92s holiness and invites awe-filled response in His presence.",\
    "theology": "This song highlights the transcendence and nearness of God, using biblical language of holiness and worship response. It reflects the pattern of Scripture where encountering God leads to humility, adoration, and surrendered praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Exodus 3:14", "Isaiah 6:1-5", "Revelation 15:3-4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it slow, spacious, and centered. This works best when the band supports the room rather than dominating it. Consider placing it before a prayer moment or communion to deepen reverence.",\
    "seo_title": "Great I Am | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Great I Am\\" (New Life Worship), its holiness themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Today Is The Day",\
    "artist": "Lincoln Brewster",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 106,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Celebration", "Freedom", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy celebration song that invites the church to rejoice in God\'92s salvation and step into the joy of the Lord together.",\
    "theology": "This song centers on the biblical call to rejoice and celebrate God\'92s saving work. It frames worship as an active response to God\'92s goodness and encourages the church to live in freedom and praise rather than fear or heaviness.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 118:24", "Psalm 100:1-2", "Galatians 5:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use it as an opener or a momentum-builder. Keep the vocal lead simple and rhythmic so the room can sing. If your band tends to rush, lock the tempo early and keep transitions tight.",\
    "seo_title": "Today Is The Day | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Today Is The Day\\" by Lincoln Brewster. See key themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it with joy."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Christ Is Risen",\
    "artist": "Matt Maher",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 86,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection", "Victory", "Hope", "Gospel"],\
    "summary": "A resurrection declaration that celebrates Jesus alive and reigning, inviting the church to rejoice in the victory of the cross and empty tomb.",\
    "theology": "This song proclaims the cornerstone confession of the Christian faith: Christ has risen, and death has been defeated. It reinforces gospel hope and invites worshipers to respond with confidence in Jesus\'92 victory and future restoration.",\
    "scripture_references": ["1 Corinthians 15:3-4", "Romans 6:4", "Matthew 28:5-6"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Perfect for Easter season, baptisms, and victory-focused sets. Keep the chorus big and congregational. If you repeat the ending, frame it as a shared confession, not a band vamp.",\
    "seo_title": "Christ Is Risen | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Christ Is Risen\\" by Matt Maher. Explore resurrection themes, Scripture references, and practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Happy Day",\
    "artist": "Tim Hughes",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 138,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Salvation", "Celebration", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A joyful celebration of salvation and new life in Jesus, designed for big congregational energy and smiling, sing-along worship.",\
    "theology": "The song celebrates the joy of salvation and the freedom found in Christ. It functions as a testimony song, helping the church express gladness rooted in the gospel rather than circumstances.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 118:24", "2 Corinthians 5:17", "Romans 5:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great as a set opener or post-sermon lift. Keep it punchy and do not over-extend it. If your room is learning it, repeat the chorus early and keep the melody prominent.",\
    "seo_title": "Happy Day | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Happy Day\\" by Tim Hughes. Learn its salvation joy themes and get practical worship leader tips for leading it with energy."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "How Marvelous (I Stand Amazed)",\
    "artist": "Modern Arrangement",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Atonement", "Grace", "Cross", "Awe"],\
    "summary": "A modern setting of the classic hymn that centers on the wonder of Jesus\'92 sacrificial love and the amazement of grace.",\
    "theology": "This hymn focuses on the cross and the astounding love of Christ. It forms awe and gratitude, emphasizing substitutionary sacrifice and the worshiper\'92s humble response to grace.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 5:8", "1 Peter 2:24", "2 Corinthians 5:21"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it reverent and unhurried. This pairs beautifully with communion or a gospel-centered response moment. If using a modern chorus tag, keep it singable and not overly wordy.",\
    "seo_title": "How Marvelous (I Stand Amazed) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"How Marvelous (I Stand Amazed)\\" in a modern arrangement. Explore cross-centered themes and practical tips for leading it worshipfully."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Everlasting God",\
    "artist": "Brenton Brown",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 132,\
    "themes": ["Strength", "Trust", "Hope", "God's Character"],\
    "summary": "An upbeat declaration of God\'92s strength and endurance, reminding the church that God never grows weary and sustains His people.",\
    "theology": "The song draws from Isaiah\'92s portrait of God\'92s inexhaustible strength and His ability to renew the weary. It forms trust in God\'92s character and invites worship that confesses dependence rather than self-reliance.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 40:28-31", "Psalm 121:1-2", "2 Corinthians 12:9"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it bright, steady, and very congregational. The chorus is the anchor, so make sure it is clearly led. Great early in the set or after testimonies.",\
    "seo_title": "Everlasting God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Everlasting God\\" by Brenton Brown. Learn its themes of strength and trust, Scripture connections, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "You Are Good",\
    "artist": "Israel Houghton",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Thanksgiving", "God's Goodness", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A joyful, groove-driven celebration of God\'92s goodness and mercy that invites the whole room to participate with glad praise.",\
    "theology": "This is Psalm-like worship centered on God\'92s goodness and enduring mercy. It forms gratitude and corporate celebration, emphasizing God\'92s character as the basis for praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 100:4-5", "Psalm 136:1", "Psalm 34:8"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Let the rhythm carry it. Keep call-and-response moments clear, and do not over-sing the top line. Great as an opener or a joyful reset after a heavier song.",\
    "seo_title": "You Are Good | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"You Are Good\\" by Israel Houghton. Explore themes of joy and thanksgiving and get practical tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Crown Him (Majesty)",\
    "artist": "Hillsong Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Kingship of Jesus", "Adoration", "Worthy", "Holiness"],\
    "summary": "A reverent worship song that exalts Jesus as King, inviting the church to crown Him with praise and surrender.",\
    "theology": "This song centers on Jesus\'92 kingship and worthiness. It forms a throne-room posture, shifting worshipers toward adoration, humility, and allegiance to Christ as the reigning King.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 19:16", "Revelation 5:12-13", "Psalm 24:7-10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with space and clarity. Avoid rushing transitions so the room can sing the weighty lines. This fits well near the end of a set or after a message on the kingdom of God.",\
    "seo_title": "Crown Him (Majesty) | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Crown Him (Majesty)\\" by Hillsong Worship. Learn its kingship themes and practical worship leader tips for leading it reverently."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Noel",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Incarnation", "Adoration", "Awe"],\
    "summary": "A reflective Christmas worship song that invites wonder at the birth of Christ, moving from quiet awe into joyful adoration.",\
    "theology": "The song centers on the incarnation and the worship response to Jesus\'92 coming. It invites the church to behold Christ, echoing the biblical pattern of wonder leading to worship.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:10-14", "John 1:14", "Matthew 2:10-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Start soft and let it grow. Keep the first verse intimate, then build into the chorus without rushing. Great in candlelight services and Advent sets that emphasize awe.",\
    "seo_title": "Noel | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Noel\\" by Chris Tomlin. Explore its incarnation themes and get practical worship leader tips for leading it during Advent and Christmas."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "O The Blood",\
    "artist": "Gateway Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Bb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Db",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Cross", "Atonement", "Forgiveness", "Grace"],\
    "summary": "A worship song that magnifies the power and mercy of Jesus\'92 blood, inviting gratitude and reverence for the cross.",\
    "theology": "This song centers on atonement and forgiveness, celebrating the cleansing and reconciling work of Jesus. It forms a cross-shaped worship life where confidence and peace are rooted in Christ\'92s sacrifice.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Hebrews 9:14", "Ephesians 1:7", "1 John 1:7"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Best led as a communion or response song. Keep it simple and let lyrics lead the moment. Avoid overbuilding too soon so the weight of the cross stays central.",\
    "seo_title": "O The Blood | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"O The Blood\\" by Gateway Worship. Learn its cross-centered themes, Scripture references, and practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Worthy Is The Lamb",\
    "artist": "Hillsong Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Worthy", "Jesus", "Adoration", "Revelation"],\
    "summary": "A reverent worship song that declares Jesus as the worthy Lamb, joining the church\'92s voice to the worship of heaven.",\
    "theology": "The song echoes Revelation\'92s worship scenes, exalting Jesus as the Lamb who was slain and is worthy of all praise. It forms a God-centered awe that lifts worship beyond self into adoration of Christ.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 5:9-13", "John 1:29", "Revelation 4:11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the space and let the congregation sing. This is powerful with minimal instrumentation and strong vocal support. It pairs well with prayer and quiet reverence.",\
    "seo_title": "Worthy Is The Lamb | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Worthy Is The Lamb\\" by Hillsong Worship. Explore its Revelation themes and get practical worship leader tips for leading it reverently."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Love The Lord",\
    "artist": "Lincoln Brewster",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 124,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Joy", "Devotion", "Command to Worship"],\
    "summary": "A joyful call to worship that invites the church to love the Lord with whole hearts and celebrate His goodness together.",\
    "theology": "This song leans into the biblical command to love God and praise Him with joy. It forms obedience-driven worship that is rooted in God\'92s worthiness and our devotion to Him.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Deuteronomy 6:5", "Psalm 9:1-2", "Matthew 22:37"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great as a set opener. Keep the groove clear and the lyrics very audible. If your room is less familiar, teach the chorus as a call-and-response before you go full band.",\
    "seo_title": "Love The Lord | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Love The Lord\\" by Lincoln Brewster. Discover key themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Hark The Herald (with King Of Heaven)",\
    "artist": "Bethel Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 82,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Incarnation", "Adoration", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A modern Christmas medley that pairs the classic carol with a contemporary refrain celebrating Jesus as the King of heaven come near.",\
    "theology": "This combination holds historic incarnation theology while giving the church a modern singable response. It reinforces Christ\'92s identity as King and Savior and invites adoration that is rooted in the good news of His coming.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 2:10-14", "John 1:14", "Philippians 2:9-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the carol melody strong and familiar, then let the modern section feel like a response. Avoid abrupt transitions by keeping the same tonal center and a steady dynamic build.",\
    "seo_title": "Hark The Herald (with King Of Heaven) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Hark The Herald (with King Of Heaven)\\" (Bethel Music). Explore incarnation themes and get practical tips for leading it in Christmas worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Your Name",\
    "artist": "Paul Baloche",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 102,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Praise", "Confidence", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A congregational anthem celebrating the beauty and power of Jesus\'92 name, inviting confident praise and worship.",\
    "theology": "The song centers Jesus\'92 name as the hope and joy of the church, aligning with the biblical pattern of calling on the Lord and magnifying Christ. It forms confidence in who Jesus is, not merely what we feel.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "Acts 4:12", "Psalm 20:7"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the tempo steady and let the chorus be sung big. This fits well early in a set as a unifying anthem. If you repeat the chorus, drop instruments slightly so the congregation carries the sound.",\
    "seo_title": "Your Name | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Your Name\\" by Paul Baloche. Learn key themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "God Of This City",\
    "artist": "Bluetree",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Mission", "Revival", "Prayer", "Hope for the City"],\
    "summary": "A prayerful worship song that asks God to move in a city, awakening hope, salvation, and renewal in the name of Jesus.",\
    "theology": "The song expresses missional intercession and faith for God\'92s activity in communities. It aligns with the biblical call to pray for cities and nations and to seek God\'92s kingdom coming in tangible ways.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Jeremiah 29:7", "Matthew 6:10", "Habakkuk 3:2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is best led as a prayer moment, not a performance. Keep it simple and allow space for intercession. Consider naming your city specifically when you introduce it.",\
    "seo_title": "God Of This City | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"God Of This City\\" by Bluetree. Explore its mission and prayer themes with Scripture references and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Chain Breaker",\
    "artist": "Zach Williams",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Freedom", "Deliverance", "Hope", "Healing"],\
    "summary": "A faith-building song that points weary people to Jesus as the One who breaks chains and brings freedom, healing, and hope.",\
    "theology": "This song centers on Jesus\'92 power to save and restore, emphasizing freedom from bondage and the hope of redemption. It works best when framed as gospel deliverance rather than self-help motivation.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Luke 4:18", "John 8:36", "Psalm 107:13-14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great for ministry moments. Keep the chorus clear and resist overcomplicating the arrangement. If you extend the ending, do it with prayerful intention rather than endless repetition.",\
    "seo_title": "Chain Breaker | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Chain Breaker\\" by Zach Williams. Learn its themes of freedom and hope, Scripture references, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Beautiful Things",\
    "artist": "Gungor",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 110,\
    "themes": ["Restoration", "Hope", "Redemption", "Renewal"],\
    "summary": "A hopeful worship song celebrating God\'92s ability to make all things new and bring beauty from brokenness.",\
    "theology": "The song highlights God\'92s restorative work, aligning with the biblical promise that God renews, heals, and redeems. It forms hope by reminding worshipers that God is actively at work even in messy, unfinished stories.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 21:5", "Isaiah 61:3", "2 Corinthians 5:17"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is effective mid-set when you want to lift hope. Keep the groove steady and the lyrics forward. Consider pairing it with a brief testimony or prayer of trust.",\
    "seo_title": "Beautiful Things | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Beautiful Things\\" by Gungor. Explore its restoration themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Am Free",\
    "artist": "Newsboys",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 136,\
    "themes": ["Freedom", "Joy", "Praise", "Celebration"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy worship song celebrating freedom in Jesus and inviting the church to respond with joy and praise.",\
    "theology": "The song frames freedom as a gospel reality rooted in Christ\'92s saving work. It calls the church to embodied joy and praise as a response to liberation and new life.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Galatians 5:1", "Romans 8:1-2", "Psalm 118:14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is a celebration track. Keep it tight and do not let it drag. It works best as an opener or as a lift after a testimony or baptism moment.",\
    "seo_title": "I Am Free | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Am Free\\" by Newsboys. Learn its freedom themes, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it with energy."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "My Savior My God",\
    "artist": "Aaron Shust",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Devotion", "Worship", "Lordship of Jesus", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A heartfelt worship song declaring personal devotion to Jesus as Savior and God, inviting the church to respond with sincere praise.",\
    "theology": "This song emphasizes Jesus as both Savior and Lord, shaping worship as personal allegiance and adoration. It aligns with biblical confession that Jesus is God and worthy of our lives and praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 10:9", "John 20:28", "Psalm 63:1-4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it sincere and not over-sung. This fits well mid-set or as a response after prayer. Let the chorus be sung simply so the congregation can carry it.",\
    "seo_title": "My Savior My God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"My Savior My God\\" by Aaron Shust. Explore its devotion themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Resurrecting (Live)",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Bb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Db",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection", "Power of Jesus", "Victory", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A worship anthem celebrating resurrection power at work in Jesus and in His people, moving from reflective awe into triumphant confidence.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes resurrection as both historical reality and present power, aligning with New Testament teaching that believers share in Christ\'92s life. It forms hope, courage, and worship rooted in the risen Jesus.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 1:19-20", "Romans 8:11", "1 Corinthians 15:20-22"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Build it patiently. Let early sections feel reflective, then lift into the bigger declarations without rushing. If you extend the ending, keep it anchored to the main hook so the congregation stays engaged.",\
    "seo_title": "Resurrecting | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Resurrecting\\" (Elevation Worship). Learn its resurrection-power themes, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Even So Come",\
    "artist": "Passion",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Second Coming", "Hope", "Prayer", "Kingdom"],\
    "summary": "A worshipful prayer for Jesus\'92 return that strengthens the church\'92s longing for the kingdom and anchors hope beyond the present moment.",\
    "theology": "The song echoes the biblical cry for Christ to come and make all things right. It forms an eschatological imagination where worship includes longing, hope, and anticipation of Jesus\'92 return and ultimate renewal.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 22:20", "Titus 2:13", "1 Thessalonians 4:16-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with reverence and clarity. This is powerful near the end of a set, especially after communion. Keep space for prayer and avoid turning it into background music.",\
    "seo_title": "Even So Come | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Even So Come\\" by Passion. Explore themes of Jesus\'92 return, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Holy Spirit",\
    "artist": "Francesca Battistelli",\
    "suggested_male_key": "Bb",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Db",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Holy Spirit", "Presence of God", "Dependence", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A prayerful invitation for the Holy Spirit\'92s presence and leading, expressing dependence and openness to God\'92s work.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects the biblical posture of asking the Spirit to lead, fill, and guide believers into God\'92s will. It forms a dependent spirituality that values God\'92s presence and transformation more than performance or control.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 14:26", "Romans 8:14", "2 Corinthians 3:17-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it gentle and prayer-like. This fits well after confession, during ministry time, or as a transition into a quieter moment. Avoid rushing the chorus so the room can actually pray it.",\
    "seo_title": "Holy Spirit (Francesca Battistelli) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Holy Spirit\\" by Francesca Battistelli. Learn its themes of dependence and presence, Scripture connections, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Glory To God Forever",\
    "artist": "Fee",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Doxology", "Praise", "God's Glory", "Thanksgiving"],\
    "summary": "An upbeat doxology-style worship song that directs the church to give God glory forever with joyful, repeated praise.",\
    "theology": "The song centers on God\'92s glory as the ultimate aim of worship. It aligns with Scripture\'92s call to glorify God in all things, forming a congregation that praises God for who He is rather than only for what He gives.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 11:36", "1 Corinthians 10:31", "Psalm 115:1"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works well as an opener or a celebratory closer. Keep it clean and not too fast. If you repeat the chorus, drop instruments briefly so the congregation carries the declaration.",\
    "seo_title": "Glory To God Forever | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Glory To God Forever\\" by Fee. Explore its doxology themes, Scripture references, and practical tips for leading it in worship."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "God Of Wonders",\
    "artist": "Third Day",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 100,\
    "themes": ["Creation", "Awe", "Holiness", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A worship classic celebrating God\'92s wonder and holiness revealed through creation and His mighty works.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes God\'92s glory displayed in creation and His holiness that inspires awe. It forms a big-God worship posture, lifting the church beyond self-focus into reverent adoration of the Creator.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 19:1", "Romans 1:20", "Isaiah 6:3"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the chorus big and singable. This bridges generations well, especially if you keep the arrangement straightforward. Consider pairing it with a Psalm reading or a short call to worship.",\
    "seo_title": "God Of Wonders | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"God Of Wonders\\" by Third Day. Learn its themes of creation and holiness, plus practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Stronger",\
    "artist": "Hillsong Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 130,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection", "Victory", "Cross", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A high-energy anthem celebrating the victory of Jesus through the cross and resurrection, declaring that death is defeated and Christ is stronger.",\
    "theology": "The song proclaims Christ\'92s victory over sin and death, emphasizing the cross and resurrection as the center of Christian hope. It forms bold faith and praise grounded in the finished work of Jesus.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Colossians 2:13-15", "1 Corinthians 15:54-57", "Romans 8:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works best when it is tight and confident. Keep the chorus clear and let the room sing the main hook. Great for Easter season, baptisms, and victory-focused sets.",\
    "seo_title": "Stronger | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Stronger\\" by Hillsong Worship. Explore its resurrection-victory themes, Scripture references, and practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Overcome",\
    "artist": "Jon Egan",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 76,\
    "themes": ["Victory", "Cross", "Resurrection", "Perseverance"],\
    "summary": "A worship anthem that declares victory in Jesus, celebrating that the cross has overcome the world and His kingdom will endure.",\
    "theology": "The song points to Christ\'92s victory through the cross and resurrection and invites the church to live with confident perseverance. It aligns with biblical assurance that Jesus has overcome the world and that His reign is unshakeable.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 16:33", "Revelation 12:11", "1 John 5:4-5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it as a confident declaration, not a hype moment. Keep it steady and let the chorus be sung strongly. This pairs well with preaching on endurance, trials, and hope.",\
    "seo_title": "Overcome | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Overcome\\" by Jon Egan. Learn its victory themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Take My Life",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Consecration", "Devotion", "Obedience"],\
    "summary": "A consecration song offering one\'92s life to God in worship, asking for wholehearted surrender and faithful obedience.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects Romans 12 language of offering ourselves to God. It forms worship as surrender and discipleship, reinforcing that our lives belong to Jesus and that worship includes obedience.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 12:1", "Luke 9:23", "Galatians 2:20"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use this as a response after a message or during a prayer moment. Keep it simple and honest, and allow a moment of silence after the chorus to let the surrender land.",\
    "seo_title": "Take My Life | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Take My Life\\" by Chris Tomlin. Explore its surrender themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Heard The Bells On Christmas Day",\
    "artist": "Casting Crowns",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 80,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Peace", "Hope", "Perseverance"],\
    "summary": "A Christmas song that moves through honest tension toward hope, declaring that peace and truth ultimately prevail because God is not dead nor asleep.",\
    "theology": "The song holds lament and hope together, acknowledging darkness while insisting on God\'92s sovereignty and the triumph of truth. It forms resilient Advent faith that refuses despair and clings to the promise of God\'92s coming peace.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 9:6-7", "John 14:27", "Romans 15:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works well in Advent services where you want honest reflection. Keep dynamics intentional and do not rush the hopeful turn. Consider pairing it with prayer for peace in the world.",\
    "seo_title": "I Heard The Bells On Christmas Day | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Heard The Bells On Christmas Day\\" (Casting Crowns). Learn its themes of peace and hope, Scripture references, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Emmanuel (Hallowed Manger Ground)",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Christmas", "Incarnation", "Adoration", "Awe"],\
    "summary": "A reverent Christmas worship song centered on the wonder of God with us, inviting the church to adore the newborn King with awe and humility.",\
    "theology": "The song focuses on the incarnation, emphasizing Jesus as Emmanuel, God with us. It forms worshipful wonder that is rooted in Scripture\'92s announcement that God has come near in Christ for salvation and restoration.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 1:23", "Luke 2:10-14", "John 1:14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it sparse and reverent. This lands best with simple instrumentation and strong lyric projection. Consider reading Matthew 1:23 before singing to frame the Emmanuel theme clearly.",\
    "seo_title": "Emmanuel (Hallowed Manger Ground) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Emmanuel (Hallowed Manger Ground)\\" by Chris Tomlin. Explore incarnation themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Gratitude",\
    "artist": "Brandon Lake",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Gratitude", "Praise", "Testimony", "Awe"],\
    "summary": "A heartfelt testimony song that turns everyday gratitude into worship, inviting believers to praise God with honest humility and wonder.",\
    "theology": "The song frames worship as a response to God\'92s goodness rather than performance. It emphasizes the posture of thanksgiving and awe, shaping the heart to magnify God when words feel small.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 103:1-2", "Colossians 3:16-17", "1 Thessalonians 5:16-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it like a testimony the whole room can own. Keep the first pass simple and conversational, then open the chorus wide. If you repeat, invite the congregation to sing louder rather than adding more vocal runs.",\
    "seo_title": "Gratitude | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Gratitude\\" (Brandon Lake), key themes of thanksgiving and praise, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Holy Forever",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 70,\
    "themes": ["Holiness", "Worthy", "Heavenly Worship", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A reverent anthem that joins the church\'92s voice to the worship of heaven, declaring God\'92s holiness and worthiness forever.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects the biblical picture of eternal worship, where God is continually praised as holy. It forms a God-centered awe that pulls attention off self and onto the holiness and majesty of the Lord.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 4:8-11", "Isaiah 6:1-3", "Revelation 5:11-13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it spacious and steady. Encourage congregational singing by keeping the melody clear and resisting over-adlibbing. This works well near the end of a set as a reverent climax.",\
    "seo_title": "Holy Forever | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Holy Forever\\" (Chris Tomlin), its holiness themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it reverently."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Thank God",\
    "artist": "Maverick City Music & UPPERROOM",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 106,\
    "themes": ["Testimony", "Freedom", "Joy", "Salvation"],\
    "summary": "A joyful testimony song celebrating God\'92s power to save and set people free, with a hook that invites bold congregational participation.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes salvation and transformation, celebrating deliverance from sin and shame. It frames worship as public gratitude for what God has done, strengthening faith through testimony.",\
    "scripture_references": ["2 Corinthians 5:17", "Colossians 1:13-14", "Psalm 40:1-3"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Teach the chorus early and keep the groove tight. This is a celebration track, so keep momentum high but make space for the congregation to shout the hook together.",\
    "seo_title": "I Thank God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Thank God\\" (Maverick City Music & UPPERROOM), themes of salvation and freedom, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it with joy."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Trust In God",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Trust", "Faithfulness", "Providence", "Perseverance"],\
    "summary": "A steady declaration of trust that anchors the church in God\'92s character and faithfulness, especially when outcomes feel uncertain.",\
    "theology": "This song forms perseverance by rooting confidence in who God is rather than what we see. It echoes the biblical call to trust God\'92s promises and remain faithful in every season.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Proverbs 3:5-6", "Psalm 56:3-4", "Hebrews 10:23"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with calm conviction. Keep the arrangement uncluttered so the congregation can sing strongly. This works well after prayer or a message on anxiety, waiting, or faith.",\
    "seo_title": "Trust In God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Trust In God\\" (Elevation Worship), key themes of faith and perseverance, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Oceans (Where Feet May Fail)",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 63,\
    "themes": ["Faith", "Trust", "Holy Spirit", "Dependence"],\
    "summary": "A prayerful worship song about stepping out in faith and trusting God in uncertainty, asking the Spirit to lead and sustain.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects dependence on God and the Spirit\'92s guidance, forming courage to follow Jesus beyond comfort. It resonates with the biblical theme of faith that obeys even when the path is unclear.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 14:28-31", "Isaiah 43:2", "Romans 8:14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it patient and avoid rushing the build. The congregation often connects deeply with the chorus, so give them room to sing it repeatedly. Use dynamics to support prayer, not performance.",\
    "seo_title": "Oceans (Where Feet May Fail) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Oceans (Where Feet May Fail)\\" (Hillsong UNITED), themes of faith and dependence, Scripture references, and worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "So Will I (100 Billion X)",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 73,\
    "themes": ["Creation", "Awe", "Worship", "Surrender"],\
    "summary": "A sweeping song of awe that traces God\'92s glory through creation and redemption, calling worshipers into humble surrender and praise.",\
    "theology": "The song highlights God\'92s greatness revealed in creation and God\'92s love revealed in Christ. It forms a worship posture that responds to God\'92s initiative, inviting surrendered obedience as the fitting response to grace.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 19:1", "Romans 1:20", "Colossians 1:16-17"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is lyric-heavy, so keep diction clear and pacing steady. If your room is newer to it, choose one or two sections rather than singing every possible build. Let awe, not volume, lead the moment.",\
    "seo_title": "So Will I (100 Billion X) | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"So Will I (100 Billion X)\\" (Hillsong UNITED), its creation and surrender themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Good Grace",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 90,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "Praise", "Gospel", "Joy"],\
    "summary": "A bright, celebratory worship song that invites the church to rejoice in the grace of God and the good news of Jesus.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes grace as the foundation of the Christian life, shaping worship around gospel joy and gratitude. It encourages the church to celebrate salvation with confidence and unity.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 2:8-9", "Titus 2:11-14", "Psalm 98:4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it rhythmic and clean. The chorus is the main congregational hook, so make it easy to sing by keeping vocal phrasing straightforward. Great as an opener or momentum-builder.",\
    "seo_title": "Good Grace | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Good Grace\\" (Hillsong UNITED), themes of gospel joy and grace, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "God Turn It Around",\
    "artist": "Jon Reddick",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Hope", "Faith", "Breakthrough", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A faith-filled prayer asking God to move, restore, and bring breakthrough, helping the church sing hope in the middle of difficulty.",\
    "theology": "The song forms expectation and trust in God\'92s providence and power. It aligns with biblical prayer that asks boldly while resting in God\'92s goodness and timing.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 8:28", "Psalm 27:13-14", "Mark 9:23-24"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it as intercession. Keep the verses intimate, then let the chorus become a repeated prayer. If you extend the ending, keep it anchored to the main hook so the congregation stays engaged.",\
    "seo_title": "God Turn It Around | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"God Turn It Around\\" (Jon Reddick), its themes of breakthrough and hope, Scripture references, and worship leader tips for leading it as a prayer."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Wait On You",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship & Maverick City Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 80,\
    "themes": ["Waiting", "Trust", "Strength", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A worship song that teaches the church to wait with faith, believing that God renews strength and remains faithful in the delay.",\
    "theology": "The song forms endurance and patience, reinforcing the biblical theme that waiting is not wasted when it is anchored in trust. It frames waiting as worship and dependence.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 40:31", "Psalm 27:14", "Lamentations 3:25-26"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the tempo steady and let the chorus be sung repeatedly. This pairs well with prayer and ministry moments, especially when people need language for waiting seasons.",\
    "seo_title": "Wait On You | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Wait On You\\" (Elevation Worship & Maverick City Music), themes of waiting and strength, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Talking To Jesus",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Prayer", "Dependence", "Peace", "Relationship with God"],\
    "summary": "A simple, pastoral song that encourages prayer as an ongoing relationship with Jesus, especially in anxiety, pain, and everyday life.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes Jesus\'92 accessibility and the normalcy of prayer, forming a disciple\'92s rhythm of dependence. It aligns with biblical invitations to bring burdens to Jesus and pray without ceasing.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 11:28-30", "Philippians 4:6-7", "1 Thessalonians 5:16-18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Introduce it as an encouragement, then let the chorus become a simple congregational prayer. Keep the arrangement minimal and avoid overbuilding so the lyric stays the focus.",\
    "seo_title": "Talking To Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Talking To Jesus\\" (Elevation Worship), its prayer and peace themes, Scripture references, and practical tips for leading it as a pastoral moment."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Never Lost",\
    "artist": "Tauren Wells",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Victory", "Faith", "Miracles", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A faith anthem that remembers God\'92s past faithfulness and declares that He never loses a battle, strengthening hope for present needs.",\
    "theology": "The song forms testimony-based faith, calling the church to remember God\'92s mighty works as fuel for trust. It aligns with biblical remembrance and confident prayer for God\'92s intervention.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Exodus 14:14", "2 Chronicles 20:15", "Psalm 77:11-14"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use it when you want to build faith and encourage prayer. Keep the chorus strong and clear. If you extend, do it with focused declarations that keep the congregation engaged.",\
    "seo_title": "Never Lost | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Never Lost\\" (Tauren Wells), themes of victory and faith, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Rattle!",\
    "artist": "Elevation Worship",\
    "suggested_male_key": "B",\
    "suggested_female_key": "D",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 132,\
    "themes": ["Resurrection", "Faith", "Revival", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A bold declaration of resurrection faith that calls the church to believe God brings life to dry bones and hopeless places.",\
    "theology": "The song draws from the biblical vision of God resurrecting what is dead, forming expectancy and courage. It celebrates resurrection power as both historical reality and present hope.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ezekiel 37:1-14", "Romans 8:11", "John 11:25-26"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This needs confident leadership and tight band execution. Teach the hook clearly and keep the groove strong. Best when framed as faith for renewal, not hype for its own sake.",\
    "seo_title": "Rattle! | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Rattle!\\" (Elevation Worship), its resurrection faith themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it powerfully."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "The Commission",\
    "artist": "CAIN",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 120,\
    "themes": ["Mission", "Gospel", "Sending", "Great Commission"],\
    "summary": "A sending song that calls believers to live on mission, carrying the gospel with courage and compassion into everyday life.",\
    "theology": "The song is rooted in the Great Commission, forming obedience and outward-focused worship. It emphasizes witness and discipleship as the fruit of gospel transformation.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 28:18-20", "Acts 1:8", "2 Corinthians 5:18-20"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great as a closer or post-sermon response when the message is missional. Keep it upbeat and clear. Consider ending with a brief prayer of commissioning over the congregation.",\
    "seo_title": "The Commission | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"The Commission\\" (CAIN), themes of mission and sending, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for using it as a closing song."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Speak Jesus",\
    "artist": "Charity Gayle",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 76,\
    "themes": ["Name of Jesus", "Healing", "Freedom", "Spiritual Warfare"],\
    "summary": "A declaration song centered on the power and peace found in the name of Jesus, spoken over fear, anxiety, sickness, and families.",\
    "theology": "The lyrics reflect the biblical confession that Jesus is Lord and that His name is saving and authoritative. It forms a pastoral practice of proclaiming gospel truth into real needs with faith and dependence.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:9-11", "Acts 4:12", "Romans 10:13"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it like a congregational prayer. Invite participation by encouraging the room to sing the name of Jesus boldly. Keep the groove steady and avoid over-explaining mid-song.",\
    "seo_title": "I Speak Jesus | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"I Speak Jesus\\" (Charity Gayle), key themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it with faith."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "God So Loved",\
    "artist": "We The Kingdom",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 75,\
    "themes": ["Gospel", "Invitation", "Grace", "Salvation"],\
    "summary": "An invitational gospel song that calls people to come to Jesus, rooted in the message of God\'92s love and the welcome of the cross.",\
    "theology": "The song clearly proclaims the gospel, emphasizing God\'92s love, Christ\'92s saving work, and the invitation to believe. It works well as a response moment where clarity matters.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 3:16", "Romans 5:8", "Matthew 11:28-30"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it tender and direct. This pairs well with communion or a gospel invitation that stays gentle. Let the chorus be sung repeatedly so the room can respond.",\
    "seo_title": "God So Loved | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"God So Loved\\" (We The Kingdom), its gospel invitation themes, Scripture connections, and practical tips for leading it as a response song."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Still The King",\
    "artist": "Commonly Performed",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Kingship of Jesus", "Sovereignty", "Trust", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A worship declaration that centers confidence in Jesus as King, reminding the church that His rule remains steady in every season.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes the reign and authority of Christ, forming worship that trusts God\'92s sovereignty above circumstances. It aligns with biblical language of God as King and the security of His kingdom.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 47:7-8", "Revelation 11:15", "Psalm 93:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Frame it as a confidence statement for your church. Keep the arrangement simple so the chorus lands strongly. If you extend, let it become a corporate confession rather than background music.",\
    "seo_title": "Still The King | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Still The King,\\" its themes of Jesus\'92 kingship and sovereignty, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "What An Awesome God",\
    "artist": "Phil Wickham",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 73,\
    "themes": ["Awe", "Praise", "God's Greatness", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A modern praise song that highlights the awe and wonder due to God, inviting the church into wholehearted admiration and worship.",\
    "theology": "The song is doxological, focusing on God\'92s greatness and holiness. It forms reverence and wonder, shifting worshipers from self-focus to God-focus.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 145:1-3", "Isaiah 6:1-3", "Revelation 4:11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Let the chorus be the anchor and keep it singable. Avoid overcomplicating the bridge so the room stays engaged. Pair it with other songs of adoration and holiness.",\
    "seo_title": "What An Awesome God | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"What An Awesome God\\" (Phil Wickham), themes of awe and praise, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "No One Like The Lord",\
    "artist": "Circuit Rider Music",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Worthy", "Adoration", "Jesus Enthroned", "Revelation"],\
    "summary": "A worship song focused on the unrivaled worthiness of Jesus, echoing throne-room language and the church\'92s response of adoration.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects heavenly worship scenes that exalt Jesus as worthy. It forms humility and adoration, reinforcing that worship is centered on the person of Christ and His glory.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Revelation 5:11-13", "Psalm 29:2", "Philippians 2:10-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Leave space and resist rushing. This often lands best with minimal talk and strong congregational singing. Build gradually and keep the melody clear.",\
    "seo_title": "No One Like The Lord | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"No One Like The Lord\\" (Circuit Rider Music), its Revelation-style worship themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Our God Reigns",\
    "artist": "Leonard E. Smith Jr.",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 92,\
    "themes": ["Kingship", "Sovereignty", "Hope", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A classic declaration of God\'92s reign that strengthens the church with confidence that the Lord rules over all.",\
    "theology": "This song centers the sovereignty of God and the confidence of His kingdom. It forms steady worship that trusts God\'92s rule even when circumstances feel unstable.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 97:1", "Psalm 47:7-8", "Daniel 4:34-35"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it strong and clear. This works well as a unifying anthem mid-set or after preaching on God\'92s kingdom. Encourage the congregation to sing the refrain with conviction.",\
    "seo_title": "Our God Reigns | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Our God Reigns,\\" its themes of God\'92s sovereignty and kingship, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "The Stand",\
    "artist": "Hillsong UNITED",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Surrender", "Devotion", "Discipleship", "Worship Response"],\
    "summary": "A surrender song that calls believers to offer their whole lives to God, standing with open hands in worship and obedience.",\
    "theology": "The song frames worship as total-life surrender, aligning with biblical discipleship and consecration. It forms a posture of obedience and humility before God\'92s greatness and mercy.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 12:1", "Luke 9:23", "Micah 6:8"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Do not rush the build. Let the bridge become a corporate prayer and give the room time to sing it. This pairs well with a response moment after preaching.",\
    "seo_title": "The Stand | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"The Stand\\" (Hillsong UNITED), themes of surrender and discipleship, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Even If",\
    "artist": "MercyMe",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 80,\
    "themes": ["Trust", "Faith", "Suffering", "Perseverance"],\
    "summary": "A song of resilient faith that declares trust in God even when outcomes are not what we want, choosing worship over fear.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects a Daniel 3 posture of faith that trusts God\'92s power while surrendering outcomes. It forms mature worship that holds hope and surrender together without denial.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Daniel 3:16-18", "Habakkuk 3:17-19", "Job 13:15"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Frame it pastorally so the church knows this is not forced positivity. Keep dynamics steady and let the chorus land as a confession. Pair well with prayer for suffering and endurance.",\
    "seo_title": "Even If | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Even If\\" (MercyMe), themes of trust in suffering, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it with integrity."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Praise You In This Storm",\
    "artist": "Casting Crowns",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Suffering", "Trust", "Perseverance", "Lament"],\
    "summary": "A worship response in hardship that helps believers cling to God in the storm, choosing praise while still acknowledging pain.",\
    "theology": "The song holds lament and worship together, reinforcing that God is present in suffering and worthy of trust. It forms a resilient faith that leans into God\'92s nearness rather than escaping reality.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 46:1-2", "2 Corinthians 4:16-18", "Psalm 34:18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it gently and do not rush. This can be powerful during grief moments, prayer services, or after heavy messages. Keep the instrumentation supportive and let the congregation sing the chorus as a prayer.",\
    "seo_title": "Praise You In This Storm | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Praise You In This Storm\\" (Casting Crowns), its themes of trust and lament, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "In The Secret",\
    "artist": "Andy Park",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Intimacy", "Prayer", "Devotion", "Presence of God"],\
    "summary": "A simple intimacy song that invites believers to meet with God in the secret place and pursue relationship over routine.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes nearness to God and the priority of private devotion. It aligns with Jesus\'92 teaching on prayer and forms worship as relational communion, not performance.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 6:6", "Psalm 27:4", "James 4:8"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it very simple so the room can sing it without effort. This works best with minimal instrumentation and a prayerful tone. Use it in nights of worship or quiet response moments.",\
    "seo_title": "In The Secret | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"In The Secret\\" (Andy Park), its intimacy and prayer themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it simply."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Come Now Is The Time To Worship",\
    "artist": "Brian Doerksen",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 66,\
    "themes": ["Call to Worship", "Surrender", "Adoration", "Invitation"],\
    "summary": "A classic call-to-worship song inviting everyone to come before God with humility and praise, emphasizing worship as a present response.",\
    "theology": "The song frames worship as an invitation and a choice, emphasizing reverence and surrender before God. It forms a simple, accessible on-ramp into corporate worship.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 95:1-6", "Psalm 100:1-4", "Philippians 2:10-11"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Great as an opener, especially in smaller rooms. Keep it gentle and not too fast. Consider starting with just acoustic guitar or piano to invite the room to sing immediately.",\
    "seo_title": "Come Now Is The Time To Worship | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Come Now Is The Time To Worship\\" (Brian Doerksen), themes of surrender and invitation, Scripture references, and worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Lord, I Lift Your Name On High",\
    "artist": "Rick Founds",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 92,\
    "themes": ["Praise", "Gospel", "Joy", "Jesus"],\
    "summary": "A simple, joyful classic that celebrates Jesus\'92 saving work and invites the church to lift His name with straightforward praise.",\
    "theology": "The song summarizes the gospel movement of Jesus\'92 incarnation, cross, resurrection, and exaltation. It forms praise that is centered on Christ\'92s saving work and easy for all ages to sing.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Philippians 2:8-11", "1 Corinthians 15:3-4", "Acts 2:32-33"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is best kept simple and congregational. Avoid adding complexity. Great for intergenerational services or as a quick reset into familiar praise.",\
    "seo_title": "Lord, I Lift Your Name On High | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Lord, I Lift Your Name On High\\" (Rick Founds), its gospel themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Here I Am To Worship",\
    "artist": "Tim Hughes",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 73,\
    "themes": ["Adoration", "Surrender", "Incarnation", "Worship Response"],\
    "summary": "A worship classic centered on the beauty of Jesus and the humble response of adoration, recognizing the cost of His love.",\
    "theology": "The song highlights Christ\'92s worthiness and the worshiper\'92s response of surrender. It points to the humility of Jesus and the costly love seen in the cross, forming a reverent, gospel-shaped adoration.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 1:14", "Philippians 2:6-8", "1 Peter 2:24"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it slow and reverent. This works well early in a set to establish adoration, or later as a response. Let the chorus be sung fully and avoid rushing to the bridge.",\
    "seo_title": "Here I Am To Worship | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Here I Am To Worship\\" (Tim Hughes), themes of adoration and surrender, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "I Could Sing Of Your Love Forever",\
    "artist": "Delirious?",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 66,\
    "themes": ["God's Love", "Devotion", "Praise", "Thanksgiving"],\
    "summary": "A simple worship song celebrating the enduring love of God, designed for easy congregational singing and repeated gratitude.",\
    "theology": "The song centers on God\'92s steadfast love and the believer\'92s joyful response. It forms affection-driven worship and reinforces that God\'92s love is worthy of continual praise.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 136:1", "Romans 8:38-39", "1 John 4:9-10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it gentle and singable. This can be a great transition song, especially if you want the room to settle into gratitude. Use repetition thoughtfully and keep the band simple.",\
    "seo_title": "I Could Sing Of Your Love Forever | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"I Could Sing Of Your Love Forever\\" (Delirious?), themes of God\'92s love, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it simply."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "We Fall Down",\
    "artist": "Chris Tomlin",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Humility", "Worship", "Holiness", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A reverent worship classic that leads the church into humility and adoration, confessing God\'92s holiness and our need.",\
    "theology": "The song models humble worship, reflecting the biblical posture of bowing before God in reverence. It forms confession and adoration, acknowledging God\'92s holiness and our dependence.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Psalm 95:6", "Isaiah 6:1-5", "James 4:10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it quietly and let the congregation sing. This works well in response moments and prayer services. Keep instrumentation minimal so the lyric carries the moment.",\
    "seo_title": "We Fall Down | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"We Fall Down\\" (Chris Tomlin), themes of humility and holiness, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for leading it reverently."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Trading My Sorrows",\
    "artist": "Darrell Evans",\
    "suggested_male_key": "A",\
    "suggested_female_key": "C",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 102,\
    "themes": ["Joy", "Exchange", "Breakthrough", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A joyful declaration song celebrating the exchange of heaviness for joy, inviting the church to praise through pain with resilient faith.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects the biblical theme of God exchanging mourning for joy and strength. It forms a faith posture that praises God while acknowledging real burdens, choosing trust and joy in the Lord.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 61:3", "Nehemiah 8:10", "Psalm 30:11-12"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it upbeat and congregational. This can become a joy breakthrough moment, so lead it with freedom but avoid pressure. Great as a set opener or celebration closer.",\
    "seo_title": "Trading My Sorrows | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Trading My Sorrows\\" (Darrell Evans), themes of joy and exchange, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it with energy."\
  \}\
]\
[\
  \{\
    "title": "Shine Jesus Shine",\
    "artist": "Graham Kendrick",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Fast",\
    "bpm": 104,\
    "themes": ["Revival", "Light of Christ", "Mission", "Praise"],\
    "summary": "A worship classic that asks the light of Christ to shine in us and through us, combining praise with a missional prayer for renewal.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes Jesus as the light of the world and calls for spiritual awakening and holiness. It forms worship that moves outward, asking God to transform His people and impact the world.",\
    "scripture_references": ["John 8:12", "Matthew 5:14-16", "Ephesians 5:8-10"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the tempo consistent and let the chorus be the big sing. This works well as a joyful closer or when you want a missional lift. Encourage strong congregational singing on the main hook.",\
    "seo_title": "Shine Jesus Shine | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Shine Jesus Shine\\" (Graham Kendrick), themes of light and renewal, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "All The Poor And Powerless",\
    "artist": "All Sons & Daughters",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 78,\
    "themes": ["Invitation", "Grace", "Gospel Welcome", "Worship"],\
    "summary": "A gentle invitational song welcoming the weak, weary, and broken to come to Jesus and find hope in His love.",\
    "theology": "The song reflects the gospel welcome of Jesus, forming humility and dependence. It aligns with the biblical invitation for the needy to come and receive grace and rest in Christ.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Matthew 11:28-30", "Isaiah 55:1-3", "Psalm 34:18"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it simply with clear dynamics. This works beautifully early in a set as a gospel welcome or as a response song after prayer. Keep instrumentation minimal so the room can sing easily.",\
    "seo_title": "All The Poor And Powerless | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"All The Poor And Powerless\\" (All Sons & Daughters), its gospel invitation themes, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Christ Be All Around Me",\
    "artist": "All Sons & Daughters",\
    "suggested_male_key": "E",\
    "suggested_female_key": "G",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 80,\
    "themes": ["Presence of God", "Protection", "Devotion", "Prayer"],\
    "summary": "A prayerful worship song asking for Christ\'92s presence to surround every part of life, forming awareness of God\'92s nearness.",\
    "theology": "The song centers on union with Christ and the desire for His presence to shape all of life. It forms a discipleship posture that seeks Christ as the covering and center of daily living.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Colossians 3:1-4", "Psalm 139:7-10", "Romans 8:38-39"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep it steady and not too loud. This can be powerful in prayer moments, especially if you let the chorus repeat as a simple corporate request. Avoid rushing transitions so the room can stay present.",\
    "seo_title": "Christ Be All Around Me | Song Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Christ Be All Around Me\\" (All Sons & Daughters), themes of God\'92s presence, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Amazing Love (You Are My King)",\
    "artist": "Billy Foote",\
    "suggested_male_key": "G",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Bb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 82,\
    "themes": ["Cross", "Grace", "Forgiveness", "Adoration"],\
    "summary": "A cross-centered worship song celebrating the love of Jesus who took our place and invites a grateful response of praise.",\
    "theology": "The song emphasizes substitution and forgiveness through the cross, forming gratitude and worship rooted in Jesus\'92 sacrificial love. It keeps the gospel central with simple, direct language.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 5:8", "1 Peter 2:24", "Ephesians 1:7"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This is very singable and works well in intergenerational settings. Keep the groove steady and let the congregation carry the chorus. Pair well with communion or a gospel response moment.",\
    "seo_title": "Amazing Love (You Are My King) | Meaning & Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Amazing Love (You Are My King)\\" (Billy Foote), themes of the cross and forgiveness, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Come Thou Fount",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 74,\
    "themes": ["Grace", "God's Faithfulness", "Devotion", "Repentance"],\
    "summary": "A classic hymn of grace and God\'92s faithfulness, honestly confessing our tendency to wander and asking God to bind our hearts to Him.",\
    "theology": "The hymn celebrates grace while acknowledging the reality of wandering hearts. It forms humble dependence and invites the church to cling to God\'92s faithfulness rather than self-confidence.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Ephesians 2:4-5", "Psalm 103:1-4", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "If older phrasing is unfamiliar, briefly explain one line before singing. Keep the melody clear and avoid unnecessary rhythmic complexity. This pairs well with confession and assurance moments.",\
    "seo_title": "Come Thou Fount | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Come Thou Fount,\\" themes of grace and faithfulness, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Be Thou My Vision",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Devotion", "Discipleship", "Treasure", "Lordship of Jesus"],\
    "summary": "A hymn-prayer asking God to be our highest vision and greatest treasure, forming worship as consecration and re-centered desire.",\
    "theology": "The hymn shapes a Christ-centered worldview, naming God as wisdom, treasure, and King. It forms discipleship through desire, asking that God be central in thought, affection, and direction.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Colossians 3:1-2", "Matthew 6:33", "Psalm 27:4"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it patiently and let the lyric do the work. This is excellent for formation sets, communion, or response moments. Keep harmonies simple so the room can sing confidently.",\
    "seo_title": "Be Thou My Vision | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Be Thou My Vision,\\" its discipleship and devotion themes, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it congregationally."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Medium",\
    "bpm": 84,\
    "themes": ["Faithfulness", "Mercy", "Providence", "Hope"],\
    "summary": "A beloved hymn celebrating God\'92s unchanging faithfulness and daily mercy, strengthening the church with stability and hope.",\
    "theology": "The hymn anchors worship in God\'92s unchanging character and His mercies that renew each morning. It forms trust and gratitude that stand firm regardless of circumstances.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Lamentations 3:22-23", "James 1:17", "Psalm 36:5"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Keep the melody comfortable for congregational range. This works well after testimonies, during uncertain seasons, or as a steady closer. Consider ending with an unaccompanied chorus for unity.",\
    "seo_title": "Great Is Thy Faithfulness | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Great Is Thy Faithfulness,\\" themes of mercy and providence, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it well."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Doxology",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Doxology", "Trinity", "Praise", "Benediction"],\
    "summary": "A concise Trinitarian hymn of praise often used as a closing response or benediction, directing all glory to God.",\
    "theology": "The doxology is explicitly Trinitarian praise, blessing Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It forms worship as God-centered glory, reminding the church that all praise belongs to the Triune God.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Romans 11:36", "Matthew 28:19", "Jude 24-25"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Use it to close a service, seal a teaching moment, or transition into a benediction. Keep it simple, sing it once or twice, and consider ending a cappella for congregational unity.",\
    "seo_title": "Doxology | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of the \\"Doxology,\\" its Trinitarian focus, Scripture connections, and practical worship leader tips for using it as a closing benediction."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Holy, Holy, Holy",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "D",\
    "suggested_female_key": "F",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 72,\
    "themes": ["Holiness", "Trinity", "Adoration", "Reverence"],\
    "summary": "A timeless hymn of reverence that declares God\'92s holiness and majesty, shaping the church\'92s worship toward awe and adoration.",\
    "theology": "The hymn emphasizes God\'92s holiness and Trinitarian majesty, forming worship as reverent adoration. It reflects the biblical vision of heaven\'92s praise and the church\'92s response to God\'92s glory.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Isaiah 6:1-3", "Revelation 4:8-11", "Psalm 99:1-3"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "Lead it with a strong, steady tempo and avoid speeding up. This works well as a call to worship or a reverent set piece. Consider a simple arrangement that supports congregational singing.",\
    "seo_title": "Holy, Holy, Holy | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Discover the meaning of \\"Holy, Holy, Holy,\\" themes of holiness and Trinity, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it reverently."\
  \},\
  \{\
    "title": "Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus",\
    "artist": "Traditional Hymn",\
    "suggested_male_key": "C",\
    "suggested_female_key": "Eb",\
    "tempo": "Slow",\
    "bpm": 68,\
    "themes": ["Fixing Our Eyes", "Hope", "Devotion", "Peace"],\
    "summary": "A gentle hymn that calls believers to refocus on Jesus, finding peace and perspective as the things of earth grow dim in His glory.",\
    "theology": "The hymn forms spiritual attention, teaching the church to fix their gaze on Christ rather than circumstances. It aligns with biblical discipleship that looks to Jesus for endurance, peace, and renewed vision.",\
    "scripture_references": ["Hebrews 12:2", "2 Corinthians 4:16-18", "Colossians 3:1-2"],\
    "practical_worship_leadership": "This works beautifully as a closing song or response after prayer. Keep it soft and unhurried. Consider ending with a quiet instrumental moment or spoken benediction that reinforces Christ-centered focus.",\
    "seo_title": "Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus | Meaning & Worship Leader Tips",\
    "meta_description": "Explore the meaning of \\"Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus,\\" themes of focusing on Christ, Scripture references, and practical worship leader tips for leading it as a reflective response."\
  \}\
]\
}